---
categories:
- faq
collection: account-settings
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/510-billing-payments-refunds-faq
keywords: []
name: Billing, Payments, & Refunds | FAQ
slug: billing-payments-refunds-faq
---
  

Learn how you'll be charged and how you can change your account's billing or
payment setup.

**Note:** The plans, prices, and autoscaling examples outlined in this
resource reflect the most recent (February 27, 2023) changes to Privy's
product offerings. Please see your account's [My Plan & Billing
](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/billing)or
[Plans](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/plans) pages for more information
on your current plan and available options.

# Billing Overview

Privy currently offers a selection of plans and add-ons to address different
needs. They are:

  * **Trial** : The trial allows users to use Privy's Convert (list growth) and Email tools with limited restrictions for a 15-day period.
  * **Convert** : A conversion-only plan allows users to use Privy's Convert tool to grow their subscriber list, make on-site announcements, and increase sales via displays (e.g., popups). 
  * **Starter** : A Starter plan allows users to access the full functionality of Privy's Convert and Email products with pricing based on the account's mailable contacts. 
  * **Growth** : A Growth plan allows users to access the full functionality of Privy's Convert, Email, and Text products with pricing based on the account's mailable and textable contacts. 

Each of these plans is managed separately. To add, remove, or change the limits of one of the plans outlined below, please review the [Account Management | FAQ](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq) guide. 

Privy will maintain a pricing page [here](https://www.privy.com/pricing). By
using the Privy Service, you agree to pay Privy the amount set forth on the
pricing page for the particular Privy Service to which you are subscribing.
Privy will provide you with fourteen (14) days advance notice of any pricing
changes via email, and your continued use of the Privy Service following such
notice period will constitute your acceptance of these changes.

## Privy's Free Trial

You can start a free trial by [creating an
account](https://dashboard.privy.com/users/sign_up?utm_source=knowledgebase&utm_medium=articleutm_campaign=knowledgebase)
or adding the Privy app to your
[BigCommerce](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/61-install-privy-on-
bigcommerce), [Shopify](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/65-install-
privy-on-shopify), or
[Wix](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/109-install-privy-on-wix) store.
The trial provides access to:

  * Privy Convert has no features or traffic limitations for 15 days. 
  * Privy Email has some email type restrictions and a 100-send limit per day for 15 days. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-13/caf07342-9b22-459b-9e20-d74ecb8b179d/Privy_Trial_limits.png)

That means you can install Privy, launch targeted displays with automated
after signup messages, capture as much contact information as you want, and
start nurturing those relationships via email.

**Note:** Trials only provide access to Convert and Email features with some
restrictions. A paid upgrade is required to access Privy's email tools without
feature limits or send text messages via Privy Text (SMS). Either upgrade ends
the free trial experience at this time. Additionally, once an account is on a
paid Privy plan, you can not go back to the trial experience.

**What happens when the trial ends?**

**Privy Convert** : After 15 days, trial accounts will need to move to a paid
plan to continue using Privy's Convert product. Check out the [My Plan &
Billing](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/billing) page in your account to
keep track of this metric following the trial period. Should you choose not to
upgrade, your active Privy displays will be paused and will not be shown to
any of your website visitors. A subsequent upgrade will automatically re-
enable the paused displays.

**Note:** As of February 14th, 2024, the free plan is no longer available for
merchants who end their trial or cancel their accounts. The following section
applies only to those merchants who ended their trial or canceled their
accounts before February 14th, 2024.

**Privy Email** : After 15 days, trials will need to move to a paid plan to
continue using Privy Email. This upgrade also removes the trial's feature
limitations, allowing you to send more than 100 emails per day, schedule
emails, and enable welcome series for your displays.

## Privy Convert

**Note:** To purchase a**Convert-only plan** , you must connect with an
e-commerce coach. This plan is not available for purchase in-app.

[Privy Conver](http://privy.com/convert)t uses a tiered pricing model based on
the average [pageviews](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/114-how-privy-
calculates-pageviews) per month that your website receives. The base plan is
$24/month and includes up to 10,000 pageviews. If you are interested in this
plan, please reach out to our team at [billing@privy.com.
](mailto:billing@privy.com)

## Privy Starter

The Privy Starter Plan is a scaling plan and will scale based on the number of
mailable contacts in the account. Our first tier for this bundle is $30/month
for up to 1,500 mailable contacts, 1,501-2,000 mailable contacts would be
$45/month, then the price would scale as follows:

  * 2,000-25,000 mailable contacts: scales $15/month for every 1,000 mailable contacts.
  * 25,000-100,000 mailable contacts: scales $30/month for every 5,000 mailable contacts.
  * 100,000 mailable contacts or more: scales $60/month for every 10,000 mailable contacts.

Check out the [My Plan &
Billing](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/subscription) page in your
account to track these metrics and review the [pricing
page](https://www.privy.com/pricing) for more details on each plan's cost.

**Note:** Privy Text (SMS) is not included in the Starter plan and requires an
additional fee.

## Privy Growth

The Privy Growth Plan is a scaling plan and will scale based on the number of
mailable contacts in the account. Our first tier for the Growth Plan bundle is
$45/month for up to 2,000 mailable contacts and 75 textable contacts with 450
sends. Should you go over these limits, the plan would scale as follows:

Email scaling:

  * 2,000-25,000 mailable contacts: scales $15/month for every 1,000 mailable contacts.
  * 25,000-100,000 mailable contacts: scales $30/month for every 5,000 mailable contacts. 
  * 100,000 mailable contacts or more: scales $60/month for every 10,000 mailable contacts.

Text scaling:

  * 75 - 200 textable contacts: scales by $15/month
  * 200-500 textable contacts: $5/month increase for every 100
  * 500-1,250 textable contacts: $5/month increase for every 250
  * 1,250-5,000 textable contacts: $15/month price increase for every 250
  * 5,000 and up textable contacts: $50/month price increase for every 1,000

Additionally, there is a cap on the number of texts you can send or receive
per month that is equal to 6X your billable contact tier. For example, if you
have 200 textable contacts, you can send 1,200 text messages a month.

Check out the [My Plan &
Billing](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/subscription) page in your
account to track these metrics, and review the [pricing
page](https://www.privy.com/pricing) for more details on each plan's cost.

  

# Billing FAQ

Find answers to common questions about the billing process for your account.

### What currency does Privy use for billing?

Privy bills customers in United States Dollars (USD).

### How can I pay for Privy?

Privy's Starter and Growth plans can be paid for through your
[Shopify](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/your-account/manage-billing/your-
invoice) account or via credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or
Discover). Privy Text (SMS) and Conversion-only plans can only be paid for via
credit card.

Credit card payments are processed using Stripe. For more information about
the strict security measures that Stripe uses, please see the [Stripe Security
Page](https://stripe.com/docs/security/stripe).

### How can I update my payment information?

In your Privy account, click your account name in the top right corner, select
the **Plans and Pricing** option from the dropdown menu, and scroll down to
_Payment method_.

### How do I access my invoices?

In your Privy account, click your account name in the top right corner, select
the **Plans and Pricing** option from the dropdown menu, and scroll down to
_Invoices_. Here you'll find your last 12 invoices with credit card billing.
If you need older invoices, please email
[billing@privy.com](mailto:billing@privy.com) and request them.

**Note:** If you are billed via Shopify, your invoices will be on the Shopify
platform.

### When will I be charged?

**Shopify** : Payments processed via Shopify will be included in your next
Shopify bill.

**Credit Card** : Payments processed via credit card will be charged
immediately for the first invoice, any plan changes thereafter will be
reflected on your next billing date.

For example, if your first payment was on March 1st, your next payment will be
on April 1st and the 1st of every month going forward. This billing cycle will
continue until the plan is canceled. Once you make the change to your upgraded
plan, you will have access to those features immediately, regardless of a mid-
cycle change.

**Note:** These guidelines do not apply to accounts on annual or bundled
plans. The payment schedule for those plans will be specified in your
agreement.

### How does contact autoscaling work?

Privy bills you based on the highest number of mailable/textable contacts in
your account for each billing cycle. If an account reaches the contact limit
of one of its Privy plans, you'll automatically be upgraded to the next tier,
which will be reflected in your next billing cycle.

Conversely, if the account drops below a previous contact limit, you'll
automatically be moved to a lower tier. No notification is sent, and no action
is required from the account owner.

Check out [this resource ](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-
management-faq)to make changes to your Privy plans. If you choose to cancel a
plan mid-cycle, you will lose access to any paid features associated with that
plan immediately.

### My Shopify bill has two charges. Why?

Shopify separates a plan's base charge from the additional pricing associated
with your particular usage tier. For example, if your Starter plan moves from
$30 to $45, the charges reflected in Shopify Billing would be $15 for the base
charge and $30 for the additional usage charges.

### Failed Payment Banner

In the event that Privy is unable to process your most recent payment, an
account status banner will be placed within your account, directing you to
take action in the **My Plans and Pricing** section. The banner will remain in
place on the account until the failed payment has been successfully
reconciled.

# Refund policy

The billing team reviews all refund requests on a case-by-case basis. A
transaction is refund-eligible for ten (10) days, with the review period
starting on the initial charge date. Please note that exceptions to this
policy are made on a case-by-case basis. If you believe your situation
warrants special consideration, please contact our customer support team, and
we will do our best to assist you.

Specific instances where a refund is not required or will not be issued
include:

### Upgrades or Downgrades

If you decide to switch plans mid-cycle, a refund is not required. Should you
need to change plans midcycle, simply reach out to us at
[billing@privy.com](mailto:billing@privy.com), and we will help ensure you are
not double billed.

### Account Inactivity

Privy is not automatically canceled if the account isn't being used or is
uninstalled from your website/storefront, the store is closed, or there is any
instance where the account is not going to be used for a period of time. If
Privy no longer meets your business needs, or you are not planning to use
Privy for some time, please
[cancel](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq)
the desired individual plan or
[close](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq) the
account entirely to avoid additional charges. Failure to close your account or
account properly or lack of usage will not result in a refund.

### Annual Billing

Annual billing provides customers with a discount by requiring an upfront
payment. Due to the nature of this discount, Privy cannot extend refunds to
subscriptions on annual billing. Any annual plan cannot be canceled or closed
until the next annual renewal date.

### Promotional Rates

Privy does not offer refunds on plans that are receiving a promotional
discount. Additionally, the discounted rate only applies to the plan that is
currently active. If the plan is upgraded to a more expensive plan, the
promotion will no longer apply.

### Accidental Upgrades

Privy has designed the upgrade path to include several steps, where a plan's
pricing is clearly listed and where multiple actions must be taken to confirm
the purchase decision. With this in mind, Privy does not offer a refund for a
plan that was upgraded by following these steps. Please
[cancel](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq)
the desired individual subscription or
[close](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq) the
account entirely to avoid additional charges.

### Acceptable Use Policy

If you engage in any of the activities listed in the [Acceptable Use
Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy), Privy reserves the right
to terminate your access to or use of the Privy service, disable your Privy
account or access to the Privy Service, and remove all or a portion of your
content, in each case at any time, with or without notice and without refund.
Privy may also report your activity to the applicable legal authorities or
third parties for abuse or fraud prevention.

# Refund FAQ

### I'm Shopify billed. Can you refund me?

If you have a Shopify billed account, the Privy Team is happy to assist you
with a refund request, but ultimately, this will need to be processed by
Shopify's Financial Team. If approved by Privy, a Privy representative will
gladly reach out to Shopify on your behalf.

### How long until I see my refund?

Approved refunds can take 5-10 business days to reflect on your bank statement
or Shopify account.

# Additional Questions

Billing support is available via email between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. EST
(excluding weekends and holidays) at
[billing@privy.com](mailto:billing@privy.com). You may also leave a voicemail
at (240) 453-4282, and the team will return your call during regular business
hours. Please note that this phone number is only for billing purposes. All
other inquiries should be directed to Privy's Support team at
support@privy.com or via live chat.

