---
categories:
- integrations
collection: account-settings
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/459-integrate-privy-with-smile-io
keywords: []
name: Integrate Privy with Smile.io
slug: integrate-privy-with-smile-io
---
The Privy integration with Smile.io allows you to engage and reward your
loyalty program members in various ways, including:

  * Reward members for submitting Convert displays (e.g., Newsletter Signup)
  * Target members with displays/newsletters based on Smile attributes (e.g., Points Balance)
  * Personalize your member emails by including Smile attributes in the email copy 

# Configuration

To enable the Privy <-> Smile.io integration:

  * Select the **Account** dropdown menu at the top-right. Your business name appears there. (1) 
  * Select **Integrations** from the dropdown menu. (2)
  * Locate and select the **Smile.io** option in the _Available Integrations_ area. (3)

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/37ff92c4-6f2a-47fe-a0bf-60120f5607d5/Integrate_with_Smile_3.png)

  * Log into Smile.io and **Authorize** the integration. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/f80f73a8-04b3-46ca-9ee5-df138975fc6b/Authorize_Integration.png)

Once you authorize the integration, Privy will import your Smile.io customers
in the background. Import times vary depending on the number of existing
Smile.io customers. It may take up to several days for a large customer set.
New customers will be automatically synced almost immediately.

These synced Customers will gain the following Custom Fields, which are usable
within Privy for display customization and segmentation/targeting, just like
any other custom field:

  * **smileio_points_balance** : The number of reward points the Customer has at this time. 
  * **smileio_vip_tier** : The VIP Tier of the Customer, which is configured in your [Smile.io account](https://app.smile.io/reward-programs/vip/tiers). 
  * **smileio_referral_url** : The Customer's referral URL.
  * **smileio_state** : The [Membership State](https://help.smile.io/en/articles/4036221-different-types-of-customers-in-smile) of the Customer. The value will be member, candidate, or excluded/disabled.
  * **smileio_updated_at** : A timestamp that indicates when the Customer was last updated. 

# Reward members for signups

To reward members when they signup for a display:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** > **All Displays**. 
  * Select the desired display. It must include a form. 
  * Select the **Follow-up** tab in the display editor. 
  * Select the **Sync signups** option and then select **Smile.io** from the _Account_ dropdown menu and **Sign up for an offer** from the _Activity_ dropdown menu. **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/d30b6ae6-9ab2-4676-bd54-2de491536321/Sync_to_Smile.png)

Members who submit the display will now receive the points associated with the
'Sign up for an offer' activity in your Smile account. This activity is
automatically added when you integrate Privy with Smile, and the reward amount
is customizable via the Points section of your Smile account.

**Note:** Only Members can earn rewards points, and the integration cannot
create new customers/ members, so wording like "Earn 100 Rewards Points if you
have an account" is recommended.

# Use Smile.io data in displays

Besides rewarding customers for their signups, your Smile data is also
available for display personalization and targeting.

## Smile.io display personalization

Merge tags, also known as Liquid variables, are supported in both the initial
and after-signup displays. Any included tags will populate with the viewer's
known value(s) and make personalizing your store experience easier. To
reference Smile data for personalization purposes, type/paste the appropriate
tag into your display content:

  * **Points Balance** : {{ contact.custom_fields.smileio_points_balance }}
  * **VIP Tier** : {{ contact.custom_fields.smileio_vip_tier }}
  * **Referral URL** : {{ contact.custom_fields.smileio_referral_url }}
  * **Membership State** : {{ contact.custom_fields.smileio_state }}

The fields will also only be populated if Privy can identify the site visitor
and that visitor has values for the fields. Therefore, it's recommended that
you also add Audience Targeting to ensure a value is known. For example, a
rule like 'smileio_state' 'text' 'is' 'member' will ensure the display only
appears to visitors with the Smile data.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/7824711a-1236-4d48-a1f8-eebd46292582/Using_Smile_Merge_Tag.png)

## Smile.io targeting rules

Privy's audience targeting rules are a collection of conditions that allow you
to target specific individuals with specific displays so that you can display
the right message to the right person at the right time. To incorporate Smile
properties into your audience targeting rules for a display:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** >**All Displays** dashboard. 
  * Select or create a display that you'd like to include Smile-based targeting rules. 
  * In the **Target** step, select the **Who To Show It To** setting and click **Add targeting condition**.
  * Click the dropdown menu listed under the  _Property_ header and select the **Custom fields** option from the  _Customer Attributes_ section. Two additional dropdown menus will appear. 
  * In the  _Field_ dropdown menu, search for and select the desired Smile property.
  * In the _Field Type_ dropdown menu, select the field's corresponding format. For example, the VIP Tier Name values would be text, while the Points Balance would be a number. 
  * Next, choose the operator and the value that you'd like the rule to evaluate. 
  * Finalize any additional rules and select **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/353767d4-f87b-409e-8cec-
ab0048932ee0/Add_Smile_targeting.gif)

Great work! This display will now only appear to contacts who meet these
criteria. For example, this bar display reminds Gold tier customers that they
are currently entitled to free shipping.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/1fc9f214-c963-468d-91e0-48f92caad1c3/Display_in_action.gif)

# Use Smile.io data in emails

Your Smile data is available for email personalization and newsletter
segmentation, and it is also used to reward customers for signups.

## Smile.io email personalization

Merge tags, also known as Liquid variables, are supported in emails. Any
included tags will populate with the recipient's known value(s) and make
personalizing your customer experience easier. To reference Smile data for
personalization purposes, use the Merge Tags dropdown menu in the email editor
to insert the appropriate tag into your email content.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/5d1fb1b6-e725-4337-9356-28c647d179e7/Smile_Merge_Tag_in_Email.png)

The fields will also only be populated if the recipient has values for the
fields. Therefore, it's recommended that you also add email segmentation that
ensures a value is known. For example, the example email shown above would
benefit from a segmentation rule like 'Custom field smilio_points_balance is
greater than 500.'

## Smile.io email segmentation

Privy's email segmentation rules are a collection of filters that allow you to
target specific individuals with specific emails so that you can send the
right message to the right person at the right time. To incorporate Smile
properties into your email segmentation:

  * Navigate to **Email + Text** > **Newsletters** from the main navigation. 
  * Select the email that you'd like to segment based on Smile data. 
  * Click on the email's **To** settings and select the **Custom segment** option. 
  * Click the **Add filter** option and then select the **Custom field** option from the dropdown menu. 
  * Add a filter based on the contacts Smile.io points balance, referral URL, membership state, or update status and **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/d5675cdd-7545-4e6b-92c0-8934dd54d5a4/Create_a_Smile_segment.gif)

Great work! This email will now only be sent to contacts who meet your
criteria. In this example, only rewards members with at least a balance of 500
points ($5 for this store) will receive the email.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/f0472620-73fa-4b49-90ea-5c3a31e7cc9a/Rewards_Email.png)

# Add a Smile.io rewards launcher to your store

Having a rewards program is a great strategy for turning existing customers
into brand promoters. Smile.io offers an almost out-of-the-box rewards program
that you can add to your Shopify store with a couple of mouse clicks. Once
Privy and Smile.io are integrated, all data gathered through your rewards pop-
up will automatically sync to your Privy contacts. For instructions on how to
add this to your storefront, please check [this
page](https://help.smile.io/en/articles/4036244-enable-shopify-customer-
account-creation).

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/0586ebd1-99e1-4e7c-817d-93a2e3762de1/Smile_rewards_in_action.gif)

