---
categories:
- integrations
- faq
collection: account-settings
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/333-sync-coupons-to-your-esp
keywords: []
name: Sync Coupons to Your ESP
slug: sync-coupons-to-your-esp
---
Syncing a contact's coupon information to an external email service provider
(ESP) allows you to gauge the contact's recent activities more easily and
craft personalized messaging around their display signups or the coupon code
they've received.

# Before you begin

Please make sure your Privy account is properly integrated with your ESP.
Privy integrates with many of the industry's leading email service providers.
You can link your accounts by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/117-integrate-privy-with-an-
email-service-provider-esp) or searching the [Knowledge
Base](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/) for provider-specific steps.

If your accounts aren't linked, no information will be shared.

# Add a hidden form field

[Hidden form fields](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/63-use-hidden-
form-fields) can be used to pass values into a contact's record without
requiring the contact to fill in that information on the display's form. This
approach allows you to use as few form fields as possible while still
collecting the information that is important to your business.

In this case, you will want to add a field that automatically collects the
coupon code presented to a contact after they sign up via a display. To add
this hidden field to a display:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** > **All Displays** via the main navigation. 
  * Select or [create a display](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/34-change-a-displays-type) that includes a form. 
  * In the **Settings** step of the display builder, scroll to **Show Advanced Settings** and click
  * Select the **Profile Attributes** option. 
  * Select the **Collect New Attribute** button, followed by the hidden field type from the dropdown menu. 
  * Select the **Save** option. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a8e70e67ad674af17cb84c/file-
tMbEaX6klX.gif)

The display will now collect and store any coupon code presented to the
customer due to their display signup.

# Map the field to your provider

Since you are using an external service to send messages or store contact
information, it is important to map the hidden fields to that service. The
mapping(s) ensure that all the data you collect in your form and associated
with your contacts appears in your database in the right spot. The mapping(s)
should be done before you launch your display.

Field mapping is a common practice and fundamentally breaks down to matching a
Privy field with a field in an external provider. The easiest way to ensure
compatibility is to configure your fields so that they share the same label
and the same internal name across each platform. In this case, you should
create a field/property that uses **coupon_code** as its internal value.
[Learn more](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/123-create-and-use-field-
mapping).

# Add a display automation rule

To sync the signup information, including the hidden coupon code field,
collected by a display:

  * Navigate to **Convert** >**All Displays.**
  * Select the display that includes the hidden coupon code field. 
  * Navigate to the **Follow-up** step of the display builder. 
  * Click the **Sync signups** button, select your external provider from the dropdown menu, configure the presented options, and **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/1785f20c-df10-4407-af1b-8c9d4e875173/Sync_signups_5.png)

The information collected by this display in the appropriately mapped fields
will now sync to the selected external provider and be stored in Privy.

**Note:** These settings must be set for each display individually. Each
signup will attempt to overwrite any previously synced information. The
historical values may be reviewable in your external provider; however, this
functionality varies by platform.

