---
categories:
- create-send
collection: text
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/326-create-a-phone-capture-display
keywords: []
name: Create a Phone Capture Display
slug: create-a-phone-capture-display
---
The phone capture display incentivizes visitors to share their phone numbers
with you by offering a special discount. With text message open rates
typically in the 90%+ range, the display is a quick and easy way to grow your
text list and engage your customers in one of the [highest-performing
channels](https://www.privy.com/hubfs/Ultimate%20Guide%20to%20Text%20Message%20Marketing.pdf).

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/6fe6178b-7b21-4aec-851f-333d80571701/Phone_capture_display_example.png)

# Create the display

To create a phone capture display:

  * Navigate to the [Plays](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/181-should-i-use-a-play-or-build-my-own-display) dashboard via the main navigation.
  * Locate the _Phone Capture_ play, and select the **Create** button.
  * Choose the discount coupon that you will offer on your display. If you didn't create one in advance, check out [this article](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-codes) to learn how to do it. 
  * Click **Continue** to start customizing the display's design. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66ad0aba9638c36b868f216c/file-8xrgsDLrt9.gif)

## Customize your display

To customize your new phone capture display:

  * Use the [display designer](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/100-use-the-build-your-own-display-designer) to customize the displays to reflect the associated offer (e.g., 10%) and your company branding. The phone capture play consists of three different displays: **Flyout** , **Thank You Page** , and **Tabs**.
  * Select the **Save** option at the upper right when you complete your design(s). 

# Target the right audience

As with all Privy [plays](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/181-should-
i-use-a-play-or-build-my-own-display), a recommended target audience has
already been selected for your display. In this case, the phone capture
display appears _immediately_ to all audiences (everyone) and remains visible
to visitors until it is disabled _._ To change these default options, use the
Target step and customize the desired settings.

  1. The **Triggers and Visibility** card allows you to determine when and how often the display appears to visitors. After making any changes, please select **Save**. 
  2. The **Audience Targeting** card allows you to target a more specific segment of your visitors instead of all visitors. If you update these settings to include various other [attributes, activities, and behaviors](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/70-use-audience-targeting-conditions), please select **Save**. 
  3. The **Scheduling** card determines how long the display will appear to visitors. Update the setting if you'd like the display to expire on a specific fixed date, then save.
  4. The **Coupon** card is optional and allows you to offer a coupon in exchange for sign-up.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66ad112d9638c36b868f2173/file-
ZqdfiTKffa.png)

# Follow-up the display

To sync the display's signups to another service or send a follow-up message
to the customers who submitted the display, move to the _Follow-up_ step and
review the following optional options:

  1. Enable and customize the [default after-signup email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/166-set-up-an-after-signup-email) to send an email to the individuals who decided to sign up for the display. 
  2. Select the **Create series** option to send additional after-signup emails. 
  3. Select the **Sync signups** option to sync the signups to a list in a [linked account](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/accounts). If you're not using [Privy Email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/46-get-started-privy-email), this setting is particularly important as it ensures the contact information (e.g., email address) is available to the third-party provider.
  4. Select the **Send text message** option to send an[ after-signup text message](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-up-an-after-signup-text) to the individuals who decided to sign up for the display.
  5. The **Notifications** setting allows you to enable or disable real-time notifications for your users. These notifications will alert the user of new display signups immediately. If you make any changes, please select **Save**.

**Note:** Customers can receive texts if their phone number was collected via
a Privy display using the phone field, they checked the text opt-in checkbox,
and they answered "YES" to the [double opt-
in](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/135-understand-double-opt-in-doi)
message sent to their number.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/e1e5d02e-489b-4c4f-be5c-f9dbaab0d658/Follow-
up_options_9.png)

# Launch the display

Once the display has been created, the target audience selected, and any
desired follow-up messages configured, select the **Publish** button at the
upper right of the  _Follow-up step_ and confirm your decision in the prompt.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/d10ac149-5856-4446-b29d-c4d463439aeb/Publish_the_phone_capture_display.png)

The phone capture display is now live and will appear to your qualifying
customers.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/b4eb27af-1b08-4df2-9f72-2abbefb315c3/Phone_capture_in_action.gif)

