---
categories:
- reporting
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/449-analyze-email-performance
keywords: []
name: Analyze Email Performance
slug: analyze-email-performance
---
After you've sent emails, you can review each email type's overall trends from
its respective dashboard (e.g., Abandoned cart), or you can drill down and
analyze the performance of individual emails. All Privy email types provide
revenue, delivery, and engagement data, while more specific data (e.g., Carts
Saved) is available for particular email types.

# Review overall performance

Navigate to the **Automations** menu in the navigation bar, select the desired
email type and click the dropdown to review its performance.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a26c21d39e504a2aed1ceb/file-
Hh8KLCRpb9.gif)

The following information is available for review:

## Abandoned Cart emails

**Note:** The overall performance metrics for Abandoned Cart include email and
text messages.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/d5c17f24-6111-40ce-
aff1-c4f947f9905b/Abandoned_cart_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected from all saved carts since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple messages within the seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent message.
  * **Emails Delivered** : The total number of contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Emails Opened** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message once it is sent when you send an email. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open.
  * **Emails Clicked** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and clicked on any link in the email.
  * **Texts Delivered** : The total number of abandoned cart texts delivered to contacts.
  * **Carts Saved** : The total number of carts saved since account creation. An abandoned cart email or text is credited for an order when a customer completes a checkout within seven days of opening an email or clicking an email or text. The email or text cannot already be credited for a save and must be the most recent abandoned cart email or text sent to the customer.

## After Signup emails

**Note:** The overall performance metrics for After Singups include email and
text messages.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/1a35951e-af51-468c-9aab-982feeb81157/After_signup_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected from all saved carts since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple messages within the seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent message.
  * **Emails Delivered** : The total number of contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Emails Opened** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message once it is sent when you send an email. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open.
  * **Emails Clicked** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and clicked on any link in the email.
  * **Texts Delivered** : The total number of after signup texts delivered to contacts.

## Customer Winback emails

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/15a746d2-85de-47a9-89d4-824f4146fd8e/Customer_Winback_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected from all sent customer winback emails since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple emails within the seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent email. 
  * **Emails Delivered** : The total number of contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Emails Opened** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message once it is sent when you send an email. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open.
  * **Emails Clicked** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and clicked on any link in the email.

## Purchase Follow-Up emails

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/9bf76a10-af37-4c23-9304-fae57c7a89f4/Purchase_follow-
up_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected from all sent customer winback emails since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple emails within the seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent email. 
  * **Emails Delivered** : The total number of contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Emails Opened** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message once it is sent when you send an email. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open.
  * **Emails Clicked** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and clicked on any link in the email.

## Welcome emails

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/1fcff3a5-c68a-438a-a822-22ec18ae9a76/Welcome_email_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected from all sent customer winback emails since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple emails within the seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent email. 
  * **Emails Delivered** : The total number of contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Emails Opened** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message once it is sent when you send an email. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open.
  * **Emails Clicked** : The total number of contacts who had an email delivered and clicked on any link in the email.

## Newsletter emails

Different from the email types outlined above, one-time newsletter emails are
accessed via the **Campaigns** menu in the navigation bar.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/9a7aec5b-3674-407a-998c-5aee0667f82b/Newsletter_metrics.png)

  * **Revenue Generated** : The total revenue collected as a result of all sent newsletters since account creation. Privy uses a last-touch model with a 7-day attribution window. If a customer has opened/clicked multiple emails within seven days proceeding a purchase, the revenue will only count toward the most recent email. 

# Review email-specific performance

To access email-specific performance information, select the desired email
type from the **Automations** navigation menu and then click the title of a
previously sent email. Depending on the email type, additional navigation
options may be available on the left when the report opens.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/7dce672e-afa1-4ddd-b216-99f261ac0fca/ACE_Reporting_-
_how_to_find.gif)

## Universal data

Abandoned Cart, Customer Winback, Newsletter, Purchase Follow-up, and Welcome
emails include delivery and engagement data. By default, the figures appear as
a percentage, but hovering over the percentages reformats them as absolute
numbers they represent.

**Note:** The individual emails that make up a welcome series require a
slightly different process to access the universal data offered in the
delivery and engagement reports.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/7eedf0f1-2584-401c-9973-5457f4e84ec4/Delivery_and_engagement_reports.gif)

### **Delivery Report**

The Delivery Report shows how many emails were sent, delivered, bounced, and
rejected.

  * **Sent** : the number of contacts sent the email minus the rejected recipients. 
  * **Delivered** : contacts sent the email and whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Bounced** : the number of contacts sent the email that had the email bounce back. Bounces are usually due to non-existent, invalid, or blocked email addresses. 
  * **Rejected** : the number of contacts that met the email's segment criteria but were not sent the email because they had a malformed address or had previously unsubscribed, bounced, or marked an email as spam.

### **Engagement Report**

The Engagement Report shows how recipients interacted with your email once
they received it. This report has five metrics that can help you gauge the
success of your email:

  * **Delivered** : contacts whose email server sent Privy a response stating that the email was delivered.
  * **Opened** : contacts who had the email delivered and opened the email. Privy embeds an invisible image into the email message when you send it. When your recipient views the email and the images load, Privy knows that the email was opened. If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the image to load, Privy will not track the email open. 
  * **Clicked** : contacts who had the email delivered and clicked on any link in the email. 
  * **Unsubscribed** : the contacts that decided to unsubscribe from your communications by clicking the unsubscribe link in the email. 
  * **Reported as Spam** : the contacts that reported this email as spam. 

## Newsletter specific

In addition to the universal data outlined above, the reports dashboard for
newsletters also includes unique _Opened_ ,  _Clicked_ , and _Unopened_
activity tables and an option to export the information.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/e8738fa8-1f6d-44a7-9fef-29ca0f817105/Newsletter_specific.png)

  * **Delivered:** The email has been successfully transmitted to the recipient's inbox
  * **Opened** : The contact's email address and the date that the newsletter was opened. This information can help you decide how to interact with these contacts moving forward.
  * **Clicked** : Contact's email address and the date that a link in the newsletter was clicked. This information can help you decide how you might interact with these contacts moving forward.
  * **Ordered:** Contacts who have gone on to make a purchase after opening an email within the 7-day attribution window.
  * **Unopened** : The contact's email address. This information can help you decide how to interact with these contacts moving forward.
  * **Bounced:** There are several reasons an email message can show as a bounce: the email address doesn't exist, the inbox is full, there are server outages, there is poor sender reputation due to spam complaints, flagged content in the message content, etc. 
  * **Unsubscribed:** The user has taken action to remove themselves from your mailing list.
  * **Rejected:** An email is rejected when the email provider of the recipient believes your email to be spam, either due to your email address/IP being blacklisted or because the email's content is deemed spam-like.
  * **Export CSV** : Export the newsletter's contact activity data. 

