---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/329-send-contacts-a-birthday-email
keywords: []
name: Send Contacts a Birthday Email
slug: send-contacts-a-birthday-email
---
Birthday emails are perfect for strengthening customer loyalty and reminding
your contacts that you're thankful for their business. Additionally,
personalized messaging like this resonates with people, as various studies,
including one from [Shopify](https://www.shopify.com/enterprise/email-
marketing-in-ecommerce-tips), have shown that birthday emails have a higher
conversion rate than typical email campaigns.

## Best Practices

Before creating a birthday email, there are some guidelines you should
consider to ensure that your messaging will resonate with your contacts.

You should, when possible, attempt to:

  * **Personalize the email**. Use your customer's name in the headline and/or body content. For example, "Happy birthday, Robert!" However, don't oversaturate the email with their information, and try to avoid potentially sensitive topics like the contact's age. 
  * **Offer a birthday gift**. Use coupon codes to offer a discount, a free product, or some other store credit. It's not worth sending a birthday email if you're not going to offer anything. Just remember that this is meant to be a genuine gift that shows customer appreciation. It's okay to highlight products that fit the customer's interest, but make sure to avoid pushing a sale.
  * **Pay attention to the call to action.** Most emails will benefit from having an explicit call to action. Consider experimenting with out-of-the-ordinary copy emphasizing the uniqueness of the day, like "Redeem your birthday gift," "Yes! I want my birthday deal," or "Get the party started." Make sure yours sticks out.

## Collect birthday information

A contact's birthday data is something that they must share with you, so you
will need to ask for this information during a display's signup. If you are
sending the birthday email with Privy email, please follow the steps in the
next section. If you are sending the birthday email via a linked third-party
email service provider (e.g., Mailchimp), please follow the steps for other
ESPs.

### Collect birthday data for Privy emails

Currently, birthday emails sent via Privy must be triggered on a monthly basis
using the Campaigns tool. The email is sent using a custom segment based on a
contact's birthday month. To collect this information, you must:

  * Create a custom field (e.g., Birthday Month) by following [these steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-manage-form-fields). 
  * Add the custom field to a display by following [these steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-manage-form-fields). 

Completing these steps will allow you to collect the required birthday
information from contacts.

### Collect birthday data for other ESPs

Most linked third-party providers send birthday emails based on birthday data
collected in a particular format (e.g., MM/DD/YYY or YYY-MM-DD). The provider
then uses that information to send the email at a particular interval, such as
yearly, on the contact's birthday. In most cases, you can use Privy's default
"Birthday" field to collect and share this information with your linked
account. To collect this information with Privy and share it with your
provider:

  * Add the default "Birthday" field to a display by following [these steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-manage-form-fields). 
  * To share the information, add a "Sync signups" automation rule to the display. [This guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/123-create-and-use-field-mapping) provides additional information on ensuring the information properly syncs. 

Once the information is collected and synced to your external provider, you
can use it to create and trigger birthday emails. Each provider approaches
this slightly differently, so please refer to their documentation for more
information.

## Create and send a birthday email

**Note:** These steps are for users of Privy Email. If you've collected
birthday information with a Privy display and synced it to an external email
service provider, create the email there.

To create a birthday email in Privy:

  * Navigate to **Campaigns**.
  * Click the **New email** button.
  * Select the template you would like to use as a starting point and click the **Save** button to have it applied to the email.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a2965648915f570c6a88b3/file-1pmQElMY0J.gif)

### Customize the email

  * Once the template is applied, edit the content using the [drag-and-drop email editor](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-drag-and-drop-email-editor). 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/b2bd3200-ea73-4168-b7bb-3ae371cee0a5/Custom_birthday_email.gif)

### Configure the email sender info

Next, click on the sender info section at the top of the email editor and
configure the options.

  1. **Confirm or select a reply-to address**. Any replies to the email will go to this address. 
  2. **Edit the subject line**. Keep it interesting, on-brand, and concise. It is recommended that the subject line be no longer than 7 words or around 40 characters. 
  3. **Provide preview text**. The text appears after your subject line when viewing the email in the inbox and allows the addition of compelling copy that helps boost open rates and engagement. The text should be 35 to 55 characters and will support Merge Tags.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/79cb8fce-
ec95-4026-8293-85e91866f9ba/Sender_info_2.png)

**Note:** The default From Name and From Address can be updated in the Sender
Options section of your [Business
Settings](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info). Additionally,
you should [update your sending domain](https://help.privy.com/article/33-use-
a-custom-sending-domain) to be your domain if you have not yet done so.

  * Once the options are configured, click the **Done** button and then select the **Save** button at the top right to exit the email editor. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/2b2cd4a7-42f8-495d-b236-8e37494ed7c9/Save.png)

### Configure the coupon settings

After exiting the editor, click on the **Coupon code** card if you would like
the birthday email to include a discount or promotion. Please **Save** after
making any changes to these settings.

    * **Add a discount**. Select the optional [coupon](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-codes) drop-down menu to offer an incentive to your customers that will encourage them to complete their purchase. 

**Note:** Unique coupon codes are not supported for BigCommerce users in
newsletters. To include a master coupon, [create the coupon
code](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Using-Coupon-Codes) in your
BigCommerce account and then incorporate the code directly into the content of
your Privy newsletter (e.g., body content, image, etc.).

  * **Add a merge tag or coupon element**. If a coupon is selected and saved, ensure the email contains a Coupon Code merge tag or a Coupon element from the editor's sidebar. The tag or element will populate with the coupon code when the email is sent to customers.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/82d16174-7c4c-4122-9916-0817a157ea72/Add_a_coupon_1.gif)

### Configure the recipients

In the **Settings** step of the email editor, click on the **Edit** option
next to the _Send Newsletter_ header to select your recipients. The options
allow you to send your email to all mailable contacts, contacts that match
certain [filters](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/136-use-custom-and-
smart-segments-in-email), or a segment that was filtered in the past. In this
case, create a custom segment based on the custom "Birthday Month" field that
you created earlier, and then select the current month. Once these options are
set, **Save**.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/259208dc-
db27-45ea-a30d-5cf8c9ecb1bd/Birthday_segment.png)

### Name and test the email

With the recipients selected, name the email by clicking the **Edit**() icon,
providing a non-default name, and clicking the **Update** button. This name
change will make it easier to locate the email for additional edits or a
performance review post-send.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/b7b29b4e-4736-44d4-8fa4-db1bdf4a72df/Edit_email_name.png)

With a unique name set, click back into the Design card and select the Send
Test Email option at the top of the email editor to make sure all of the
content displays as expected in your inbox.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/c607822d-dfb1-49a4-8777-3ea9126826da/Test_the_birthday_email.gif)

### Schedule or send the email

To activate the birthday email once its design, content, and settings are
customer-ready:

  * Click the **Save** button in the email builder if you haven't already.
  * Scroll to the bottom of the email settings page and click the **Schedule it** or the **Send** button. 
  * Confirm your decision in the subsequent prompt. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/fc917f06-e427-4ced-8c3e-22fdefa9a037/Send_or_schedule.png)

### Prepare for next month

A birthday email needs to be manually sent each month, so it's important to
proactively prepare.

To jumpstart the process, navigate to
[Campaigns](https://dashboard.privy.com/message-campaigns), select the
**Duplicate**() button on a previously sent/created birthday email you'd like
to duplicate, and update the content/settings for the appropriate month.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/eda6ccac-70cb-4777-9d78-fec382b63552/Duplicate_and_rename.gif)

## Review performance

Now that you are using newsletters to communicate with customers:

  * Learn how to evaluate their success via reporting in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-performance).
  * Discover which customers will ultimately receive your emails and why in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability).

