---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/462-send-newsletter-emails
keywords: []
name: Send Newsletter Emails
slug: send-newsletter-emails
---
Newsletters are a powerful tool for any e-commerce business. The messages sent
through this channel can circulate important information, establish your
brand's reputation, strengthen your relationship with customers, and help move
recipients through your sales funnel. With newsletters, you can:

  * Create completely customizable emails using the drag-and-drop email designer. 
  * Send one-time emails to all of your contacts or a specific pre-defined segment of contacts. 
  * Select the specific date and time that the email will be sent. 

# Example use-cases

Newsletters are a simple and convenient way to build relationships and provide
value to your customers. Below are some situations where newsletters shine.

**Promote new products and services** \- New products and services are
commonplace for a business that is adapting to the needs of its marketplace.
Newsletters are ideally suited for keeping your customers informed about those
new offerings.

**Offer promotions** \- Newsletters are an outstanding opportunity to offer
deals and discounts. A special offer promoted via a newsletter is often just
enough extra encouragement to convince a customer to make a purchase.

To understand how effective your newsletter promotion is at creating new
sales, consider creating a unique coupon that is exclusive to a specific
newsletter send or mailing list. This approach lets you track the usage of
this discount code and see how many of your recipients converted.

**Build relationships and credibility** \- Newsletters are a fantastic
opportunity to share your knowledge and insight with your customers. This
information goes a long way in establishing your credibility and fostering
long-term relationships.

**Qualify your leads** \- When someone subscribes to your newsletter, they've
expressed an interest in your business and become a lead. Over time, the
subscriber's engagement with your messages can be a powerful indication of
their intentions. Their interest may increase or remain high, as indicated by
consistent email opens and clicks. On the other hand, their interest may wane
as indicated by less interaction or an unsubscribe. Ultimately, being mindful
of your customer behavior allows you to focus on those who are still
interested in your offerings.

# Create and send your emails

To create and send a newsletter:

  * Navigate to **Automations** > **New email**.
  * Select Newsletter on the resulting popup 
  * Click Chose a Template 
  * Select the _template_ you would like to use as a starting point and click the **Save** button to apply it to the email. This action opens Privy's 3-step email editor. 

## 1) Design the email

  * Once the template is applied, edit the content using the [drag-and-drop email editor](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-drag-and-drop-email-editor). 
  * Make sure to select the **Save** button at the top-right after making your changes.

### **Consider offering an incentive**

Newsletters are a fantastic place to offer a coupon because the visitor has
already expressed interest in your products or services by signing up for your
mailing list. Incentives are particularly impactful when paired with a new
product announcement or sale.

**Note:** Unique coupon codes are not supported for BigCommerce users in
newsletters. To include a master coupon, [create the coupon
code](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Using-Coupon-Codes) in your
BigCommerce account and then incorporate the code directly into the content of
your Privy newsletter (e.g., body content, image, etc.).

  * To add a discount to your abandoned cart email, either:
    * Click into a content block that contains text and input or insert the **Coupon Code** merge tag, which appears like this: `Coupon Code` . This tag will populate with the coupon code when the email is sent to customers. Make sure to include appropriate positioning text near the code so that it is easy for the recipient to understand what they are receiving. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a267bb6eb51e63b8f9dcbb/file-
NmvxeGdGM8.png)

    * Drag and drop the **Coupon** element from the sidebar into your email and select the desired coupon from the prompt. Also, make sure to include appropriate positioning text near the code to help the recipient understand what they are receiving. 
  * Make sure to select the **Save** button at the top-right after making any changes. 

Learn more about personalizing your messaging with merge tags in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/69-personalize-your-emails) and
about inserting coupons into your content in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/28-insert-a-coupon-into-your-
content).

### **Configure the email sender info**

Next, click on the sender info section at the top of the email editor and
configure the options.

  1. **Confirm or select a reply-to address**. Any replies to the email will go to this address.
  2. **Edit the subject line**. Keep it interesting, on-brand, and concise. It is recommended that the subject line be no longer than 7 words or around 40 characters. 
  3. **Provide preview text**. The text appears after your subject line when viewing the email in the inbox and allows the addition of compelling copy that helps boost open rates and engagement. The text should be 35 to 55 characters and will support Merge Tags.

Please make sure to select the **Save** button at the top-right after making
your changes.

**Note:** To update the default From Name and Address used for your emails,
navigate to the _Sender Options_ section of your [account
settings](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/email). Additionally, consider
[updating your sending domain](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/33-use-
a-custom-sending-domain) so you can use custom addresses associated with your
domain and improve your deliverability.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/53cf9420-57e1-45f0-a6b2-79e3ae591149/Send_a_newsletter_-
_subject_and_preview.gif)

## 2) Preview and test the email

When you have finished customizing the email, return to the top of the email
editor and click the **Next** button to preview the email in desktop and
mobile views. If you are unable to click the button, make sure you've saved
your most recent changes. To preview the email in your actual inbox, select
the **Send Test Email** button. The test is sent to the email address
associated with your Privy login credentials.

## 3) Configure the email settings

With your design previewed and tested, return to the top of the email editor
and click the **Next** button to configure the email's recipients and coupon
settings. Click the **Edit** button next to the settings you'd like to change.
The following settings are available:

### **Send Newsletters to**

This option allows you to send your email to all mailable contacts or contacts
that match certain [filters](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/136-use-
custom-and-smart-segments-in-email). When a segment is selected, an estimated
number of recipients will appear on the card. If the selected segment has over
10,000 contacts, a 10,000+ value will appear. Regardless of your selection,
please use the **Save** button after making any changes.

### **Confirm the coupon settings**

Next, if you included a coupon code in your email, make sure you've selected a
code from the dropdown in the _Coupon_ section of your email settings. If
you'd like to include a coupon, but none are available in the dropdown, learn
how to create coupon codes in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-
codes).

### **Name the email**

  * Name the email by clicking into the **Email name** field and then click **Save**. This name change will make it easier to locate the email for additional edits or a performance review post-send. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/c95a3868-2d3c-4d90-b66d-dfea67226108/send_a_newsletter_-
_edit_email_name.png)

**Schedule or send the email**

To activate a newsletter once its design, content, and settings are customer-
ready, click the **Schedule** or the **Send** button on the _Settings_ step
and confirm your decision in the subsequent prompt.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/b41e2067-f3e7-4b67-88c6-b37db5e47158/Send_or_schedule_email_.png)

# Review performance

Now that you are using newsletters to communicate with customers:

  * Learn how to evaluate their success via reporting in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-performance). 
  * Discover which customers will ultimately receive your emails and why in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability). 

