---
categories:
- automations
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/490-send-purchase-follow-up-emails
keywords: []
name: Send Purchase Follow Up Emails
slug: send-purchase-follow-up-emails
---
Setting up a purchase follow-up email is one of the most effective things you
can do for your business. The post-purchase period is a crucial point in your
customer's journey, and a purchase follow-up email provides you the
opportunity to build brand loyalty and create repeat customers. To send a
fully realized purchase follow-up email:

  * You need to be integrated with BigCommerce, Shopify, Shopify Plus, or Wix so that your customer's order information is available in your Privy content. 
  * Please disable any follow-up emails already used by your e-commerce platform or other email service providers so that your customers aren’t emailed twice. 

## Example Use-Cases

Creating loyal customers might not provide the same rush that closing a new
deal does, but it's arguably more important to your business's long-term
success. Each increase in customer retention has an outsized impact on your
profits compared to simply generating news business. With this in mind, here
are a few emails you can use to turn more of your orders into loyal repeat
customers:

**The Order Confirmation** \- This email includes the [order
summary](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/92-add-an-order-summary-to-
emails) content block, and its immediate relevance to the recipient encourages
high levels of engagement. Learn how to make these as effective as possible in
[this Privy blog post](https://www.privy.com/blog/order-confirmation).

**The Thank You** \- An engaging thank-you message can help you stand out and
establish a lasting connection with your customer. This email is also a good
time to surprise and delight your customers with a special offer (e.g., a
unique coupon code).

**The Survey -** It's no secret that customers like to be heard, and if you're
not, you should probably be listening. A common approach for collecting this
feedback is called Net Promoter Score (NPS). It's a single-question survey
that asks customers to rank how likely they are to recommend your product on a
scale of 1 to 10. Allowing your customers to access this type of survey after
spending some time with your product helps to establish and maintain a dialog
between you and them.

**The Helping Hand** \- There will always be customers who need or want a
little extra help to make the most of your product. Consider following up with
a how-to guide or some insider tips and tricks. This information is best sent
a few days or weeks after the initial purchase and is an excellent opportunity
to leverage your other existing content (e.g., blog posts and videos). If you
are a Shopify user, the "Received the Order" action in the email's settings is
perfect for this situation.

## Create and Send Your Emails

Purchase follow-up emails can be sent to any
[mailable](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-
deliverability) contact who has completed a purchase through your checkout
flow. You are also able to insert an [order
summary](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/92-add-an-order-summary-to-
emails) content block, which is unique to follow-up emails and allows
recipients to see the contents of their purchase as an itemized list. To
create and send a purchase follow-up email:

  * Navigate to **Automations** > **New automation**.
  * Click the **Purchase Follow-up** option. This action opens Privy's 3-Step email editor.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a25d3248915f570c6a8866/file-
eVHnqVgp7a.gif)

### 1) Design the email

  * Edit the content of your email using the [drag-and-drop editor](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-drag-and-drop-email-editor). A basic example is provided automatically; however, this starting point can be changed by selecting Templates > Choose a Template from the editor’s toolbar. Once a template is selected, click the Save button to apply it to the email. 

**Note:** The “Keep Shopping” button included in some templates defaults to
the URL provided in the _Business Information_ section of your [Business
Settings](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info), but its value
can be changed to another location (e.g., A customer’s cart) by clicking on it
and updating the setting in the sidebar.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/ea7738c2-2a19-4c9e-a7bb-c8814d523a1b/Select_a_template.gif)

  * Make sure to select the **Save** button at the top-right after making your changes. 

## **Consider Offering an Incentive**

Purchase follow-up emails are a great place to offer a coupon because the
visitor has already expressed enough interest to purchase a product or service
from you. Industry norms indicate that customers are often most engaged within
30 days after their first purchase and that repeat customers are more
profitable to your business. Once first-time customers make that crucial
second purchase, they’re much more likely to keep buying from you. An
incentive can help expedite this process.

  * To add a discount to your purchase follow-up email, either:
    * Click into a content block that contains text and input or insert the **Coupon Code** merge tag, which appears like this: **{{ coupon_code }}**. This tag will populate with the coupon code when the email is sent to customers. Make sure to include appropriate positioning text near the code so that it is easy for the recipient to understand what they are receiving. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/2ce38345-e1a1-4fee-955f-7e53eb723e8d/Add_a_coupon_code_merge_tag_1.gif)

    * Drag and drop the **Coupon** element from the sidebar into your email and select the desired coupon from the prompt. Make sure to include appropriate positioning text near the code so that the recipient can easily understand what they are receiving. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/672ddcd0-e0c2-4b9b-985d-b797f0ba5a71/Add_a_coupon_element_1.gif)

  * Make sure to select the **Save** button at the top right after making any changes. 

Learn more about personalizing your messaging with merge tags in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/69-personalize-your-emails),
and about inserting coupons into your content in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/28-insert-a-coupon-into-your-
content).

## **Configure the Sender Information**

Next, click on the sender info section at the top of the email editor and
configure the options.

  1. **Confirm or select a reply-to address**. Any replies to the email will go to this address. 
  2. **Edit the subject line**. Keep it interesting, on-brand, and concise. It is recommended that the subject line be no longer than 7 words or around 40 characters. 
  3. **Provide preview text**. The text appears after your subject line when viewing the email in the inbox and allows the addition of compelling copy that helps boost open rates and engagement. The text should be 35 to 55 characters and will support Merge Tags. 

Please make sure to select the **Save** button at the top-right after making
your changes.

**Note:** To update the default From Name and Address used for your emails,
navigate to the _Sender Options_ section of your [account
settings](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/email). Additionally, consider
[updating your sending domain](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/33-use-
a-custom-sending-domain) so you can use custom addresses associated with your
domain and improve your deliverability.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/e5620683-293f-4887-a0ed-83eee37857db/Sender_info.png)

### 2) Preview and Test the Email

With an email customized, return to the top of the email editor and click the
**Next** button to preview the email in desktop and mobile views. If you are
unable to click the button, make sure you've saved your most recent changes.
To preview the email in your actual inbox, select the **Send Test Email**
button. The test is sent to the email address associated with your Privy login
credentials.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/c1cff4c4-ad68-42a4-b48c-3a38223eb778/Preview_and_test_email.gif)

### 3) Configure the Email Settings

With your design previewed and tested, return to the top of the email editor
and click the **Next** button to configure the email's trigger and coupon
settings. Click the **Edit** button next to the settings you'd like to change.
The following trigger settings are available:

  1. **Set the timing of the email**. Choose the length of time since someone's order was placed or delivered (Shopify Only - A [default shipping carrier](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/shipping/understanding-shipping/shipping-carriers) with tracking information is required) before the follow-up email is sent. The default is 4 hours, but you can extend this up to 90 days.
  2. **Segment by order** **count**. Configure the email so that it only sends if the customer has placed a certain number of orders. With order count segmentation, you can create a different set of emails after customers reach certain purchase thresholds.
  3. **Set the minimum order value**. Enter the minimum order value that a shopper must have to receive a follow-up email. The default is $0, which means anyone who has made a purchase should receive the email. 
  4. **Set maximum order value**. Use the optional maximum order value if you plan on making tiered offers to customers with different order values. For example, you could offer no discount to shoppers who completed a purchase of $49 or less but a 10% discount to shoppers who purchased $50 or more.
  5. **Segment by product**. If the account is integrated with a Shopify or Shopify Plus store, the email can be configured so that it only sends if the customer's order contains specific items. Learn more about product IDs and product segmentation [here](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/192-use-product-segmentation). 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/aab1e894-d238-4154-98bb-f5d587e6805c/Trigger_settings.png)

After editing the trigger settings, please select the section’s **Save**
button.

## **Confirm the Coupon Settings**

Next, if you included a coupon code in your email, make sure you've selected a
code from the dropdown in the _Coupon_ section of your email settings. If
you'd like to include a coupon, but none are available in the dropdown, learn
how to create coupon codes in [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-
codes).

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/9e5ed746-a0fe-4855-aa59-1280bab1cdfe/Coupon_settings.png)

## **Name the Email**

  * Name the email by clicking the **Edit Title** icon, providing a non-default name, and clicking the **Update** button. This name change will make it easier to locate the email for additional edits or a performance review after it is sent. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/8476a09a-784a-4e65-8547-6a3b63e34be2/Rename_email.png)

## **Activate the Email**

To activate an email once its design, content, and settings are customer-
ready:

  * Click the **Save** button in the email builder if you haven't already.
  * Scroll to the top of the _Settings_ step and click the **Activate** button. 

The purchase follow-up email will start sending to qualifying visitors
automatically.

**Note:** Only orders completed after the activation will trigger the email.
Once triggered, the email is scheduled to send X hours/days from the selected
trigger. The tool will not work retroactively.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/50e4e302-e691-4544-bd63-20203bffa741/Activate_email_.png)

## **Create a Series**

Repeat these steps to create additional emails for a follow-up series. Review
the Example use-cases section of this article for a refresher on what these
emails might focus on, and be sure to leave enough time between the emails so
that customers feel engaged but not inundated.

**Note:** If the email is part of a series, please ensure there’s enough time
to create, edit, and enable the other emails without issue. You can always
return to the emails and activate them when all elements of the series are
ready for customers.

# Review the email's performance

Now that your follow-up emails are being sent to customers:

  * Learn how to evaluate their success via reporting in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-performance). 
  * Discover which customers will ultimately receive your emails and why in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability). 

