---
categories:
- faq
- deliverability
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/120-understand-email-engagement
keywords:
- Click Tracking
- Clicks
- Email
- Engagment
- Email Engagment
- Email Performance
- Performance
- Open Tracking
- Tracking
- Links
- URL
- Opens
- UTM
- UTM Tags
name: Understand Email Engagement
slug: understand-email-engagement
---
Engagement is a good measure of the health of your emails. Engaged recipients
typically open your emails, click on your links, and take the actions you
encourage them to take in your message. To allow you to observe and track your
contacts' engagement with your content, Privy leverages three types of
tracking in your emails: click tracking, open tracking, and UTM tags.

# Click tracking

Click tracking allows you to see if contacts have clicked the links included
in your emails. To identify and register these clicks, the URLs in your
content are replaced with special tracking links in both Plain Text and HTML
content. For example, a button in your email may be linked to a URL like this:

    
    
    https://wicked-wicks-candle-co.myshopify.com/
    

When your email arrives in your recipients' inboxes, the link will look
something like this instead:

    
    
    http://s.privymktg.com/ls/click?upn=3D2Ud8Flq1hGzUEqx515Fv-2
    

When a contact clicks the link in the email, the tracking link redirects them
through Privy's servers and sends them to the intended web address. The
redirect through Privy's server is logged in your [email performance
report](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-performance)
as a click. This URL change and redirect are invisible to the vast majority of
recipients as the link is not readily reviewable and will not appear this way
in their browser bar when they get redirected. However, if a recipient
inspects their email closely or only reviews their emails in a plain text
format, then the tracking URL will be visible.

**Note:** When a recipient reaches your website, a link will no longer include
the s.privymktg.com click tracking component, but it will include UTM (?utm)
information. Learn more below.

# Open tracking

Open tracking allows you to see if contacts have opened your emails. To
identify an email open, Privy automatically embeds an invisible 1-pixel image
into your sent emails. When your recipient views the email and the images
load, Privy is able to register an open in your [email performance
report](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-
performance). The included invisible image is hyperlinked to a URL using the
following format:

    
    
    http://s.privymktg.com/wf/open
    

If the recipient's email client doesn't allow the tracking pixel to load,
Privy will not be able to track the email open. The tracking pixel can be
deactivated in the following situations:

  * The recipient formats their email in plain text.
  * The recipient's email client doesn't automatically download images.
  * The recipient's corporate filter strips away all images for incoming emails.

# UTM tags

UTM tags are snippets of text added to the end of a URL for tracking purposes.
Privy automatically adds UTM tags to the links in your email to help answer
questions about your traffic, including:

  * Why is the traffic coming to your site?
  * Where is the traffic coming from?
  * How is the traffic getting to you?

Unlike click-and-open tracking, UTM tags are customizable and are much more
visible to your recipients as they appear in their browser bar when they land
on your site.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-26/419d1309-ff7b-41ec-b61f-85523e820ede/UTM_Story_1.png)

To learn more about UTM tags, check out [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/51-use-utm-tags-in-privy-
emails).

