---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/484-use-custom-and-smart-segments-in-email
keywords: []
name: Use Custom and Smart Segments in Email
slug: use-custom-and-smart-segments-in-email
---
A segment is a group of contacts defined by a set of conditions. Unlike a
static subscriber list, segments are dynamic, meaning they grow as contacts
meet the segment's conditions and shrink as contacts no longer meet them.

Segmented email sends often return more revenue per recipient than unsegmented
sends as they can be tailored to a particular situation and thus are more
relevant to the recipients. A few examples of how you might use segments to
reach different audiences include:

  * Send a special promotion to customers who currently have any amount in their shopping cart and have never made a purchase.
  * Attempt to re-engage inactive subscribers who signed up at least six months ago but haven't been seen recently or haven't opened your last few emails.
  * Send a thank you or special reward to VIP customers who have purchased at least X times before or have spent over X amount of money.
  * Send a special offer to contacts who have purchased a specific product or an item from a particular collection (Shopify only). 

# Custom segments

Custom segments allow you to target a group of your contacts by combining
various filters. These segments are built from scratch, making them highly
customizable to your situation.

## Create a custom segment

To create a new custom segment:

  * Navigate to the **Contacts** dropdown and select **Segments**.
  * In the top-right corner, select the **New Segment** button.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e55d17303ea4a739d4399/file-
BOhk6IgGk4.png)

  * If you’re on the Settings page of your Campaign, select the **Custom Segment** box, then select **Create New Segment**

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e5583e66450147a8e68b1/file-
VTsFDrviTg.png)

  * In the segment builder, name your segment - recipients will not see this name.
  * In the dropdown menu that appears, select whether you'd like the segment's contacts to **Match any** or M**atch** **all** of the category filters you eventually select.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e56711bee2d183948ce7a/file-
NEBTuckUU2.png)

  * Use the “ _Choose category_ ” dropdown to add the desired conditions. When building a segment, you can use the following conditions:

_**Shopping Activity**_

**Cart Value** : Include contacts based on the current value of your
BigCommerce, Shopify, Squarespace, or Weebly cart.

**First Order** : Include contacts based on when they first ordered from your
store.

**Last Order** : Include contacts based on when they last ordered from your
store.

**Lifetime Spend** : Include contacts based on their total spending in your
Shopify store.

**Order Count** : Include contacts based on the number of orders they have
placed in your Shopify or Weebly store.

**Purchase History** : Include contacts based on the products or
[collections](https://www.privy.com/blog/introducing-shopify-collections-for-
privy) they have purchased or have not purchased from your Shopify store in
the past 365 days.

** _Website Behavior_**

**By Display** : Include contacts based on their previous display signups.

**Last Seen** : Include contacts based on the last time they visited your
site.

**Signup Date** : Include contacts based on when they signed up for your email
list.

**_Customer Attributes_**

**By Country** : Include contacts based on the country reported by the
contact's IP address.

**Custom Field** : Include contacts based on their [custom
field](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-manage-form-
fields) values. These values are provided via an import or when submitting a
display.

**Imported** : Include contacts based on whether or not they have been
manually imported directly from another service or via CSV.

**Name / Email** : Include contacts based on their exact name or email
address.

**Privy Tags** : Include or exclude contacts based on the
[tags](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/146-add-privy-tags-to-your-
contacts) applied to their contact profile.

**Shopify Tags** : Include or exclude contacts based on the
[tags](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/shopify-admin/productivity-
tools/using-tags#tag-types) applied to their customer profile in Shopify.

** _Email Engagement_**

**Clicked Email** : Include contacts that clicked a specific email.

**Did Not Open** : Include contacts that did not open a specific email.

**Opened** : Include contacts that opened a specific email.

**Was Not Sent** : Include contacts that were not sent a specific email.

  * Finally, select the **Create** button at the upper right. The current number of subscribers in this segment will appear on the top right.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e57581bee2d183948ce7b/file-
MsoYC2lDwD.png)

## Reuse a custom segment

To create a new campaign from an existing saved custom segment:

  * Navigate to the **Contacts** dropdown and select **Segments**.
  * For the desired segment, click the “ _Create Message”_ dropdown on the right.
  * Select **Create Email** from the menu.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/fd3ac732-fcc6-45d8-9206-0dc25140572c/Segments_-
_Create_Message.png)

  * Proceed with the steps to create a [newsletter](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-newsletter-emails) email.

To reuse a custom segment from an existing campaign:

  * Navigate to the Settings page of your campaign.
  * Edit the “ _Sent to”_ section and select **Custom Segment**.
  * Select the “ _Choose Existing Segment_ ” dropdown and choose from the menu.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-15/16ee82d7-0e3e-473c-89f0-142308f3555d/Segments_-
_Choose.png)

  * A preview of the segment will appear.
  * Finally, click **Save** on the top right.

# Smart segments

Smart segments allow you to quickly target a group of your contacts without
the hassle of creating a custom segment. These segments make sending the right
message to the right contact at the right time much more straightforward and
typically result in increased deliverability rates and email engagement. Some
of the available segments include:

  * **Current Customers** : This segment targets the contacts who have placed at least one order with your store.
  * **Engaged Contacts** : This segment targets the contacts who opened or clicked an email at least once in the last 90 days.
  * **Potential Customers:** This segment targets the contacts who have not yet placed an order with your store.

## Use a smart segment

To apply a smart segment to a one-time email campaign:

  * Navigate to **Campaigns** and select or [create the email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-newsletter-emails) you want to segment.
  * Select the **Edit** button next to the _" Send email to"_ heading in the **Settings** step.
  * In the menu that opens, select a **Smart Segment** option.
  * Select one of the prebuilt smart segments and then select the **Save** button. The card will display an estimated number of recipients. If the selected segment has more than 10,000 contacts, a 10,000+ value will appear.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e59d57303ea4a739d439c/file-k2s1J6VQty.png)

# Don't Send To (optional)

You also have the option to choose a saved segment or Smart Segment to exclude
from an email send.

  * Navigate to **Campaigns** and select or [create the email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-newsletter-emails) you want to segment.
  * Select the **Edit** button next to the _" Send email to"_ heading in the **Settings** step.
  * In the menu that opens, select the dropdown under _" Don't send to (Optional)_
  * In the dropdown menu that appears, select one of the prebuilt smart segments or a saved segment and then select the **Save** button.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/663e5bab5ae8353469c6b8fa/file-
GAoutDU9I8.png)

This segment will now be excluded from the email send.

