---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/172-use-an-html-email-template
keywords:
- Email
- HTML
- HTML Email
- HTML Template
- code
- coded email
- editor
- email builder
name: Use an HTML Email Template
slug: use-an-html-email-template
---
While the [drag-and-drop email
editor](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-drag-and-drop-
email-editor) is recommended for most users due to its ease of use, you have
the option to work with custom HTML if you already have a template or if you
prefer to work directly with your code.

There are two ways to use an HTML email template with Privy emails, and the
approach differs slightly depending on the email type. Please review the
available options below.

**Note:** While the Privy product supports custom HTML, the Privy support team
cannot help you build out or troubleshoot your custom templates beyond the
general guidance covered in this documentation. Please only import custom
templates if you prefer working directly with source code and have the
technical skills or resources to troubleshoot and resolve any issues.

## After signup emails

To use a custom HTML template for an after-signup email:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** > **All Displays** via the main navigation. 
  * Select the display in need of an after-signup email. 
  * Select the **Follow-up** step in the display builder. 
  * Click on the email card in the _After Signup Emails_ section to open the email builder.
  * Once in the editor, click the **Templates** button and select the **Switch editor** option from the dropdown menu. 
  * Select the HTML editor option from the prompt and then confirm your choice by clicking the **Switch editor** button. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/191eeb81-439d-49d2-8bb2-9eedc48688b6/Switch_editors.gif)

  * Replace the code of the default HTML email with your own and then select **Save**. 

**Note:** The default Privy footer is still included when sending emails using
a custom HTML template. Its inclusion ensures your emails meet the required
compliance guidelines. That said, its inclusion may change how you decide to
design your footer, so testing is recommended.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/e4a56bd0-43c1-4a0b-899c-4615d3ece64c/Replace_HTML.gif)

If you choose to add additional emails and create a welcome series, the editor
options will present themselves automatically.

## All other email types

To use a custom HTML template for an Abandoned Cart, Customer Winback,
Newsletter, or Purchase Follow-up email:

  * Select the desired email type from the **Email + Text** dropdown menu. 
  * Select an existing email or create a new one. 
  * Select the **Design** step to open the drag-and-drop editor. 
  * Remove all of the content from the existing template, leaving a single empty content block. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/599f5f3c-005b-46ac-b019-79bf26d720ae/Empty_email.png)

  * Add an **HTML** element to the empty content block, and then paste your HTML email template into the block via the sidebar.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-09/53da9e5d-f25d-46d3-b1f3-b5ba3e00fea4/Use_custom_HTML.gif)

**Note:** The default Privy footer is still included when sending emails using
a custom HTML template. Its inclusion ensures your emails meet the required
compliance guidelines. That said, its inclusion may change how you decide to
design your footer, so testing is recommended.

  * Save the changes you've made and send, schedule, or activate the email. 

