---
categories:
- integrations
collection: account-settings
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/366-use-a-namecheap-sending-domain
keywords: []
name: Use a Namecheap Sending Domain
slug: use-a-namecheap-sending-domain
---
The default address used to send emails from your account is a shared Privy
address. However, to [improve your email
deliverability](https://www.privy.com/blog/how-to-improve-email-
deliverability) and build trust with your email recipients, this address
should be updated to reflect your specific domain and brand. This document
will walk you through setting up your DNS records with Namecheap. If you use a
different provider, please reference [this
resource](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/33-use-a-custom-sending-
domain) instead.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/f52298fe-24e0-446e-9b80-775e6cd0e621/Default_vs_Custom_sending_domain_3.png)

Please ensure that you meet the following requirements before proceeding:

  * You must own a domain name - addresses from free providers like Gmail or Yahoo won't work.
  * You must have the ability to update the DNS records of your domain.
  * You must be hosting a website at the root of the domain. 

# Add the domain

To add a new sending domain:

  * In Privy, click the **Account** option from the navigation. Your business name appears there. 
  * Select the**Business Information** option from the dropdown menu. 
  * In the sidebar, select **Sending Domain** under the  _Email Settings_ section. 
  * Click the **\+ Add Sending Domain** button in the upper right. 
  * In the prompt, enter your domain name (e.g., example.com) and click the **Save** button. The provided domain must be a root domain, not a subdomain (e.g., mail.example.com). 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/667ee29ee1989867dcefe8b9/file-
wVXsXweBSF.gif)

# Update your DNS information

After completing the previous steps, DNS records are generated for your
domain. The records are automatically presented to you after saving the domain
for the first time. However, if you have navigated away from the page, the
records can be easily accessed by returning to your [Sending
Domain](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/sending-domains) settings,
locating the domain, and clicking the **DNS Records** button.

Once you've accessed the records:

  * Navigate to Namecheap and log into your account. 
  * Select **Domain List** from the sidebar and click the **Manage** button next to your domain. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/ed0871a0-17c2-4cb9-b27a-38c47c5e14fe/Domain_list.png)

  * Select the **Advanced DNS** tab at the top of the page.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/2f742b5e-3a10-4ad4-9b97-cc019eb499ad/Advanced_DNS.png)

  * Add a new record by clicking the**Add new record** button towards the bottom of the page.
  * Add each record displayed in Privy, making sure to match **Type** with **Type** , **Host** with**Host** , and **Data** with **Value**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/03f018ef-9e43-4eeb-8702-e3996857b297/Add_record.png)

  * Once all of the records are added, return to the records in Privy and click the **Verify and Set Default** button next to the domain. This action will check if the DNS records were updated correctly and set the domain as the default for your emails going forward. 

**Note:** It can take up to 48 hours for the DNS records to propagate and
properly verify.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/fecf909d-d014-4ca4-ab86-67e71d5231d3/Verify_domain_4.gif)

# Send emails with the domain

After verifying your sending domain, you can update the default "from" address
for emails sent from your account. If you don't update these settings, emails
will be sent using "offers" as the username paired with your custom sending
domain. To update this setting:

  * In Privy, click the **Account** option from the navigation. Your business name appears there. 
  * Select the**Business Information** option from the dropdown menu. 
  * In the sidebar, select **Sender Options** under the  _Email Settings_ section.
  * Input the desired address before the "@" symbol in the 

 _Default From Email_ field.

  * Ensure the desired custom domain appears to the right of the "@" symbol.
  * Click the **Save Changes** button to confirm your selections. 

Completion of this process will update all emails that you create moving
forward. Check out this example from our friends at Space Age Trading Cards,
who decided to combine "launches" with their custom sending domain to create
their default From Email address.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/b0f73f1b-9d82-455e-b06e-03c6404a7a89/Customize_the_default_from_address_2.png)

To update this setting for emails set up before the change:

  * Go into the email editor and click on the **From** option under the _Sender Info_ section.
  * Enter the desired address information and select a verified domain from the dropdown menu.
  * Click **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/919b875f-db85-4291-ac88-f7a11a27ad44/Edit_an_existing_emails_From_Address_3.png)

# Troubleshoot common issues

## Pending verification

In most cases, the records should be verified almost immediately when entered
into the host correctly. However, some changes will require up to 48 hours to
take effect. If your records have not been verified after 48 hours, please do
the following:

  * Review the "Why Haven't My DNS Records Verified?" [guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/87-why-havent-my-dns-records-verified).
  * Attempt the verification process again.
  * Contact your web host for assistance.
  * Explore the Privy Partner and Privy Support resources listed below. 

# Additional resources

## Privy Support

Leave the Support Team a voicemail containing your DNS-related question at
619-431-4373. The team will return your call between 9 AM and 5 PM EST -
excluding weekends and holidays.

**Note:** This phone number is only for DNS questions. All other inquiries
should be directed to Privy's Support Team via
[email](mailto:support@privy.com) or via the chat widget at the bottom right
of this screen.

