---
categories:
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/234-launch-your-first-display
keywords:
- Design
- Display
- First
- Welcome Campaign
- Create
- Launch
- Launching
- My First Campaign
- New
- Walk Through Video
name: Launch Your First Display
slug: launch-your-first-display
---
Getting your first display launched quickly is crucial as it allows you to
engage with and identify visitors interested in your products. Fortunately,
launching your first display is easier than ever and only a few clicks away.

**Note:** This guide reviews launching the first display in a brand-new
account. If you're looking to create a display in an existing account as a new
user, please check out [this
resource](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/161-privy-display-types) on
the available display types and how to create them.

# Before you begin

Before creating and launching your first display, confirming that your site or
storefront is connected to your Privy account is important. If you installed
Privy through the "app store" or "marketplace" of your e-commerce provider,
this is done for you. However, please review [this
resource](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/73-install-privy-on-your-
site) if you're not sure that an installation has occurred. Displays cannot be
displayed on your site or storefront if the installation hasn't happened.

# Create a discount coupon

The first display is a welcome discount and requires a coupon code. This
display type is recommended due to its generally good performance for all
businesses. In fact, displays with a discount attached result in 5 times the
conversions compared to those without one.

**Shopify users** : During the setup process, you are automatically presented
with a selection of popular coupons. Simply select one to use for your first
display. To confirm that the Shopify integration is working correctly, perform
an [account test](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/108-use-display-
automation-rules) under **Account > Integrations**.

**Non-Shopify users** : Create a coupon code manually by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-
codes). The discount must be appropriate for a welcome discount shown to all
new visitors. Even relatively small discounts result in a substantially higher
conversion rate.

# Create the display

To customize and launch your first display:

  * Navigate to **Convert** >**All Displays**.
  * Select the **Design** **My First Popup** button shown in the "Welcome" message. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/668e8852dd0f8c60bb3fe2e4/file-
HesBijB66V.png)

## Template Selection

The Template screen lets you choose a starting point that makes sense for your
business. Choose a template optimized for the Business Goal you want to reach.
Once you've chosen a template, click **Get Started.**

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/667d854e1f3fa9421e2887e3/file-G2c0Rqej08.png)

  * To customize this layout, use the display editor to customize the display's content, tabs, and thank you page to match your brand. Please review the linked resources to collect more visitor information with [additional fields](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-manage-form-fields) or enable an automatic [after signup message](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/166-set-up-an-after-signup-email). 
  * Next, use the **Desktop Preview** and **Mobile Preview** buttons to ensure the display meets your design goals for each view. All layouts are designed for desktop and mobile responsiveness by default; however, it's always best to check. 

The display is ready to collect visitor information and can be launched on
your site via the **Publish** button at the top right. If you aren't ready to
publish, select the **Save** button instead.

## Add Additional Fields and Elements

To add additional fields to the display:

  * Select an element above or below where you want to add the field. 
  * Click the "+" above or below the field and select the field or element that you would like to add. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/667db6f95173914f806c253e/file-
RRomtnPEuT.gif)

## Add an After Signup Message

To enable an after signup message for the display:

  * Select the **Follow Up** Step at the top-right of the display editor. 
  * Select the default message **subject line** to access the email editor. Make any desired changes to the default content or design, and make sure to **S****ave** any changes. 
  * After making your changes, switch the **Published** toggle to the **ON** position. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/667dbabf5940934e140f546e/file-x3GFZYdqYf.png)

The after signup message will now be sent to contacts after they signup. This
message is not retroactive. If the display is already published, the message
will only be sent to new signups.

# Consider what's next

Once your first display is published, other recommended displays (e.g., Cart
Saver) will appear on the [Convert](https://dashboard.privy.com/campaigns)
dashboard depending on your account's setup (e.g., Integrations).
Alternatively, you can select the **New display** option to choose from a
selection of other Privy
[Templates](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/181-should-i-use-a-play-
or-build-my-own-display) or start from scratch using the
[Classic](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/181-should-i-use-a-play-or-
build-my-own-display) option.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/668e88b65173914f806c2d7d/file-
isgKUyRkNx.png)

Check out this resource to learn more about these display types. Privy's
[Getting Started Checklist](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/42-privys-
get-started-checklist) is also a great place to start and a favorite of the
Support and Onboarding Teams.

