---
categories:
- faq
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/110-privy-glossary
keywords:
- Getting Started
- Glossary
- Jargon
- Mailable Contacts
- Pageviews
- Terms
- Textable Contacts
- Unused Text
- Index
name: Privy Glossary
slug: privy-glossary
---
This glossary covers the Privy platform's core components and other terms that
may come up when discussing the platform with your team, a Privy
representative, or a Privy Partner.

# A to D

[ _**A/B Test**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/175-run-an-a-b-test-
on-a-display): A method of comparing multiple versions of a display against
each other to determine which one performs best. This process is most
effective when only one or two variables are changed, such as variations in
the colors, titles, or images.

[ _**Abandoned Cart Email**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/39-send-
abandoned-cart-emails)**:** Sent individually or as part of a series, these
email messages target customers who added items to their cart but failed to
complete the transaction.

[_**Abandoned Cart Text**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/68-send-
abandoned-cart-texts): Sent individually, these text messages target customers
who added items to their cart but failed to complete the transaction.

[_**Audience Targeting**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/70-use-
audience-targeting-conditions): A collection of conditions that determine who
sees your display. Multiple conditions can be applied to a single display to
target specific audience segments like first-time mobile visitors or customers
from the USA who have visited your site more than three times.

[ _**Automation Rules**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/108-use-
display-automation-rules): This option within the _Follow-up_ step of the
display builder allows you to sync the signups generated by a display to an
outside provider, such as an email service provider (ESP), marketing platform,
or customer relationship management platform (CRM).

 _After Signup Action_ : This option within the _Create_ step of the display
builder allows you to determine what will occur after a visitor signs up via
the display. Possible actions include showing a thank-you page, redirecting to
a specific location, or simply doing nothing.

[ _**After Signup Email**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/166-set-
up-an-after-signup-email): An email delivered to the individual who signed
through a display. This email is ideal for delivering a coupon code, thanking
recipients for joining the list, or offering recipients additional
information.

[ _**After Signup Text**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-up-
an-after-signup-text): A text that is delivered to the individual who signed
up through a display if their phone number is known or included in the
submission and they've opted into text communications. This text is ideal for
delivering a coupon code, thanking recipients for joining the list, or
offering recipients additional information.

[ _**Banner**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/140-create-a-banner-
display): A display that appears on the top or bottom of your website with
enough space to include a small form. This display is best for announcements
or promotions.

[_**Bar**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/147-create-a-bar-display):
A relatively unobtrusive display that appears at the top or bottom of your
website. This display type cannot include a form element and is best for
promoting free shipping or other special offers.

[_**Broadcast Text**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/179-send-a-
broadcast-text): A text, sometimes referred to as a bulk SMS or a mass text,
that is sent to all contacts or a specific segment of contacts. This text type
is perfect for special announcements or updates and benefits from
exceptionally high open rates compared to other marketing channels due to the
direct nature of the communication.

 _Conversion Rate_ : A ratio comparing the number of people who viewed your
display to how many of those people signed up through it. (# of Signups / # of
Views)*100

 _Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO)_ : The process of making changes to a
display or website in order to increase the rate at which visitors take the
desired action (e.g., Signup or Purchase).

[**_Cookies_**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/227-cookies-set-in-a-
visitors-browser)**:** A small text file added to a visitor's browser when
they visit a page that includes your Privy Code. This file allows Privy to
keep track of the visitor's movements within the site and associate actions
(e.g., Visits, Signups, etc.) with a Privy contact profile.

_Contact_**:** A contact is an individual whose interaction with your business
has prompted the creation of a profile in the
[Contacts](https://dashboard.privy.com/contacts) area of your Privy account.
The information stored in these records empowers you to create more focused
displays via audience targeting and enables you to send eligible recipients
marketing or sales communications.

[_**Coupons**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-
coupon-codes): A tab within your Privy dashboard where you can create all
master or unique coupons before adding them to a specific display. When
integrated with Shopify or BigCommerce, these coupons can be automatically
synced to your store.

_Create Step_ : The section of the Privy display builder that allows you to
customize your display's design, edit the display's form, and update the
display's coupon settings.

[ _**Customer Winback**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/55-send-a-
customer-winback-email): Sent individually or as part of a series, these email
messages target customers who haven't bought from you in a while.

[ _**Displays**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/161-privy-display-
types): The centerpiece of the Privy Convert subscription, this tool allows
you to convert first-time visitors and increase sales with popups, landing
pages, embedded forms, and more.

**Display Builder** : The multi-step process presented to a user upon creating
a new display. The default steps include Create, Target, and Follow-up. If the
user removes the form element of a display, the Follow-up step is removed
automatically.

[ _**Display Designer**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/100-use-the-
build-your-own-display-designer): Accessed via the _Create_ step of the
display builder, the designer empowers you to customize your display via a
drag-and-drop editor.

 _Display (Convert) Revenue_ : A reporting metric available on the
[Displays](https://dashboard.privy.com/campaigns) dashboard and [Privy
Homepage](https://dashboard.privy.com/) representing the total revenue
collected from all contacts who have signed up via a Privy display and
subsequently made a purchase since the account was created.

 _Display (Convert) Signups_ : A reporting metric on the
[Displays](https://dashboard.privy.com/campaigns) dashboard and [Privy
Homepage](https://dashboard.privy.com/) representing the total number of
submissions since the account was created.

[** _Display Type_**](https://help.privy.com/article/466-privy-display-
types)**:** The different styles of displays you can create, such as popup,
flyout, bar, banner, etc.

 _Display (Convert) Views_ : A reporting metric on the
[Displays](https://dashboard.privy.com/campaigns) dashboard and [Privy
Homepage](https://dashboard.privy.com/) representing the total number of
display views since the account was created.

[ _**Double opt-in**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/135-understand-
double-opt-in-doi): A double opt-in is an additional step to the email
subscription opt-in process, requiring a user to verify their email address
and confirm interest. Also referred to as Confirmed Opt-in, DOI, or COI.

  

# E to H

[** _Email Editor_**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-
drag-and-drop-email-editor)**:** The drag-and-drop email editor allows you to
quickly and easily create email messages, such as newsletters, and purchase
follow-ups that your qualifying customers will receive.

[_**Embedded Form**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/95-create-an-
embedded-form): A display that appears directly within the content of your
page and aims to collect contact information. This presentation differs from
most Privy displays that are associated with a display animation, such as
sliding in or popping up.

[** _ESP_**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/117-integrate-privy-with-
an-email-service-provider-esp)**:** Email Service Provider (e.g., Privy Email,
Mailchimp, Constant Contact, Klaviyo, etc.).

 _Flyout_ : A display that appears left, right, or center of your website.
This display is best utilized for mobile users.

_Follow-up Step_ : The section of the Privy display builder that allows you to
enable after signup messages and sync signups to third-party providers using
automation rules.

[ _**Form Fields**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/168-create-and-
manage-form-fields): Accessed via the _Create_ step of the display builder,
the form fields component of a display allows you to control the user
information and/or attributes that the display aims to collect. The _Email_ or
_Phone_ field must be included if a display is using form fields.

# I to L

[ _**Landing Page**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/44-create-a-
landing-page): A display that appears as a standalone, mobile-friendly web
page and is perfect for event registration or content download displays.

# M to P

[ _**Mailable
Contacts**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-
deliverability): The contacts in your account that you have permission to
email. Unmailable contacts, such as those that never opted into marketing
emails, unsubscribed, marked email as spam, or hard bounced, are not included
and do not count towards your Privy Email contact tier.

 _Merge tag_ : A piece of code that allows you to insert unique contact data
from your contacts list into your content for the purposes of
[personalization](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/search?collectionId=&query=personalize)
(e.g., Name). Other names for merge tags are substitution strings,
personalization fields, personalization tags, or personalization tokens.

[ _**Newsletter**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-
newsletter-emails): Emails created to engage, add value, or promote on a
recurring basis.

[_**Orders**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/184-what-does-privy-
consider-an-order): An order is counted when someone signs up for your Privy
display and then completes a purchase through your store using the same email
address.

_Pageview_ : A pageview is registered each time a page that includes the Privy
Code is loaded.

 _Participants_ : The number of visitors on your site during the A/B test -
this does not mean that they will view either the display or any variations
you're running. Who sees the display is determined by the audience targeting
and trigger conditions applied in the display variations.

_Popup_**:** A display created to be front and center on your website. This
display is best utilized for desktop users.

_Preview Text_ : Preview text, sometimes known as 'preheader', is the text
that appears after the email subject line for email recipients. Preview text
is important because it allows you to add compelling copy that helps boost
open rates and engagement.

[** _Privy Dashboard_**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/85-overview-
of-the-privy-homepage)**:** This dashboard provides pre-built reports showing
which displays and emails are effective, along with the revenue they've
generated, signups they've gathered, and carts they've saved.

[** _Profile Attributes_**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/63-use-
hidden-form-fields)**:** Form fields that gather user attributes utilizing
cookies instead of asking users to fill out specific information.

[_**Purchase Follow-Up**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/131-send-
purchase-follow-up-emails): Sent individually or as part of a series, these
email messages target customers who completed a purchase through your checkout
flow.

# Q to T

[**Segment**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/136-use-custom-and-
smart-segments-in-email): The set of filters used to determine a newsletter's
audience. These filters are based on customer attributes, shopping activity,
website behavior, etc.

**Sessions** : The number of unique times a user has visited your website.

**Signup** : A signup is when a contact completes the act of
registration/submission on a Privy display. A single contact might show more
than one signup.

[**Spin-to-Win**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/32-create-a-spin-to-
win-display): A gamified display that offers discounts in exchange for contact
information.

[**Targeting Condition**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/70-use-
audience-targeting-conditions)**:** The more granular individual conditions
used to determine the display's audience (The Who). These conditions are based
on customer attributes, shopping activity, website behavior, etc.

**Targeting Rules** : The options within the _Target_ step of the display
builder that determine when a display appears, who the display appears to, and
how long the display is available.

[_**Template
dashboard**_](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/97-overview-of-the-
plays-dashboard): This dashboard allows you to quickly select and customize
pre-built plays representing the top-performing displays from across Privy's
customer base.

**Textable Contacts** : The contacts in your account that have provided their
phone number through a Privy form, have checked the Text Opt-In checkbox and
replied “yes” to the double opt-in text message. Your number of textable
contacts will update every 12 hours on the subscription page of your account
and count toward your Privy Text contact tier.

**Triggers:** The conditions that must be met for an order follow-up or
abandoned cart message to be sent to a contact.

# U to Z

**URL** : The web address that appears within your internet browser.

**Used Text Messages** : The number of text messages sent and received from/to
the phone number assigned to your company upon subscribing to Privy Text. This
includes double opt-in compliance text messages, subscriber texts to your
assigned phone number, and any after signup texts or abandoned cart texts sent
thereafter. Your number of used text messages will update every 12 hours on
the [My Plan & Billing](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/billing) page of
your account.

[**UTM Parameter**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/51-use-utm-tags-
in-privy-emails): A portion of text added to the end of a URL that allows
tracking of visits from that URL. Common uses for these parameters are in
social media, emails, and add-to-cart links.

[**Welcome Email**](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/130-send-a-
welcome-series): A welcome email is the first impression a company makes with
a new subscriber after they've visited your site and submitted a display. Your
welcome email will likely have one of the highest open rates of any email you
send, which means it’s something you can’t afford to skip.

