---
categories:
- faq
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/203-troubleshoot-common-login-issues
keywords:
- Account Recovery
- Log In
- Login
- Login Error
- Login Issues
- User Management
- Users
name: Troubleshoot Common Login Issues
slug: troubleshoot-common-login-issues
---
Are you having issues accessing Privy? Perhaps you're encountering an error
message, forgot your password, or need to recover an old account. This article
will help you quickly troubleshoot and resolve the most common login issues.

**Note:** You must use a supported web browser to access and use Privy
properly. Please ensure you meet [these browser
requirements](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/173-browsers-supported-
by-privy) before proceeding with additional troubleshooting.

# Invalid email or password

This error message indicates that the credentials you are using are invalid.
Account credentials are case-sensitive, and passwords must be at least eight
characters long. If additional attempts don't help, visit the [Privy
Login](https://dashboard.privy.com/users/sign_in) page and select the **Forgot
your password** option.

**Note:** If you log in through an integrated account, such as Shopify or
BigCommerce, you won't be able to reset your password via Privy. Instead,
password changes should take place directly through the third-party portal.

# Fail to receive a password reset email

First, check your promotions and spam folders. If you still can't locate the
password reset instructions, add support@privy.com to your address book and
request another password reset. If the email is still not arriving in your
inbox, please contact your email admin to check if additional security
measures might be preventing this message from reaching you.

**Note:** The reset token included in the email expires after 6 hours.

# Oops! Something went wrong

This error message typically indicates that there is a conflict between your
login credentials and identifiable account cookies or that there is an issue
with Privy as a whole.

First, visit Privy's [Status Page](https://status.privy.com/) and check for
platform-specific issues. If there are no ongoing issues, please try to log
into Privy using another browser or incognito mode. If you successfully log in
from the alternate browser, clear the cache and cookies of your regular
browser by following the relevant guide linked below and try to log in again.

  * [Google Chrome](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95582?hl=en)
  * [Apple Safari](https://support.apple.com/en-ie/guide/safari/sfri47acf5d6/mac)
  * [Mozilla Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/how-clear-firefox-cache)
  * [Internet Explorer](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/17438/windows-internet-explorer-view-delete-browsing-history#ie=ie-11)
  * [Microsoft Edge](https://support.microsoft.com/en-ie/help/10607/microsoft-edge-view-delete-browser-history)

If the issue persists, please [submit a support
request](mailto:support@privy.com).

# Google-related login issues

Issues encountered when using Google SSO (Single Sign-on) to access Privy
typically fall into the following categories:

  1. Your account wasn't created using SSO, so you will need to manually input your Google email address and separate Privy password instead. 
  2. The account you are attempting to use is incorrect. It is common for Google Chrome users to [switch between multiple accounts](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/2405894?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&oco=0). Please make sure the account you use with Privy is also the one selected in your Chrome settings. 
  3. The connection between your Google account and Privy has been disrupted or expired. The support team must remove the account's association with Privy so that you can log in again and "refresh" the connection. To fix this issue, [submit a support request](mailto:support@privy.com) and provide the email address you use for SSO. 

If you are still unable to log into your account, please [submit a support
request](mailto:support@privy.com).

# Shopify-related issues

Issues encountered when using Shopify to access Privy typically fall into the
following categories:

  1. The connection between your Shopify account and Privy has been disrupted or expired. Remove the Privy app from your Shopify account, [reinstall the Privy app](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/65-install-privy-on-shopify), and attempt to log in again. 
  2. You did not use [the Privy app](https://apps.shopify.com/privy) to integrate your Shopify and Privy accounts. Instead, you manually installed the Privy code on your store. You cannot log in with your Shopify credentials if this is the case as Shopify and Privy cannot authenticate your information. 

# Recover an old or inactive account

If you would like to recover an old or inactive Privy account, please [submit
a support request](mailto:support@privy.com). In the request, include the
account name and the email address associated with the account. The support
agent may request additional information for security purposes or to locate
the correct account.

**Note** : If you requested an [account
deletion](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq),
all of the account's identifiable information is scrubbed within 30 days. Once
the information is removed, it cannot be restored.

