---
categories:
- build-your-own
collection: displays
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/309-create-an-influencer-display
keywords: []
name: Create an Influencer Display
slug: create-an-influencer-display
---
An influencer display is ideal for tracking the return on investment (ROI) of
your marketing efforts with influencers. The displays are suited for
individual partnerships or more general efforts across specific influencer
channels, such as Instagram, TikTok, or YouTube. In either approach, the
display presents a more tailored message to the visitor based on their
interaction with the influencer's content in an effort to convert the visitor
into a subscriber, customer, etc.

**What is influencer marketing?** Influencer marketing employs content
creators to improve brand awareness, increase traffic, and drive your brand's
message to your target audience. The selected content creators already market
to your ideal audience across different channels, allowing you to expand your
reach across your ideal customer profiles.

**Why is it effective?** Influencer marketing works because it closely
emulates the social proof provided by word-of-mouth marketing. Customers trust
their peers, friends, and people they admire, such as influencers, more than
the companies selling the products and services they buy and use.

Note: You must use a Classic Display in order to achieve this example

# Individual vs. General displays

Before you begin, you must decide between the "individual" or the "general"
display approach. A brief description, along with the pros and cons for each,
is listed below:

  * **Individual** : This approach requires the creation of a display that clearly relates to a specific influencer. This approach leverages the visitor's relationship with the influencer and creates a more personal journey for them as they move from the influencer's content to your site. It also makes it very easy to determine which partnerships drive the most value, as each display is reported separately. That said, it requires more upfront work and management as you must create and manage more displays than a more general approach. 
  * **General** : This approach requires creating a display related to broader partnerships, such as influencers on a specific platform. This approach benefits from less upfront work and maintenance but lacks the obvious personal connection that an individual display offers. Its non-specific shareability also means that all influencers' performance is bucketed together. Any individual performance will be more difficult to determine unless you ask the visitor to provide that information during signup. 

# Decide on your shareable URL

The display shown to visitors is based on the URL they interact with before
landing on your site. For individual influencer displays, the easiest approach
is to combine the desired landing page with the influencer's name, channel,
etc. See the example below:

    
    
    https://wicked-wicks-candle-co.myshopify.com/?janedoe
    

Meanwhile, the typical format for a general influencer display is a
combination of the desired landing page and the influencer's platform or
format. See the example below:

    
    
    https://wicked-wicks-candle-co.myshopify.com/?instagraminfluencer
    

Ultimately, your version of the shareable URL is what you'll use for targeting
in your display and what your influencer will share with their audience to
drive traffic to your site.

# Create and launch the display

To create the display:

  * Navigate to **Convert** > **All Displays** and click on the **New Display** button. 
  * On the _Templates_ dashboard, select Get Started under the "Prefer the classic creation experience?" card on the bottom right of the page, provide an internal name, and then click the **Create Display** button. 
  * In the _Create_ step of the display builder, select the desired**Form fields** and **Validations** for the display if you hope to collect signups. One field is recommended, while the validation depends on your intended audiences and desired discount availability. If the display is for an announcement and doesn't need a form element, disable the **Enable Form?** option. 

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66872a6fe1989867dcefece7/file-
aDZted8to1.gif)

  * Next, select the **Add a Display** option. A popup or flyout is recommended. A flyout is especially useful for partnerships with social media influencers as the majority of that traffic arrives on mobile devices, and flyouts are mobile responsive by default. 
  * Use the [display designer](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/100-use-the-build-your-own-display-designer) to configure the display to your liking and select the **Save** option at the upper right when you are done with your changes. An "individual" example is shown below: 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/fe8e4165-16e1-4b3c-a8aa-7e313646a72f/Jane_doe_display.png)

  * After saving, a new _Design_ section will be available under the _Create_ step. It's best practice to use a thank-you page after signup action. 

  

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/0a30f1af-9fe6-4adf-
bdca-0b987d6480f6/After_signup_action_1.png)

  * If the display offers a discount, make sure to select a coupon in the _Coupon codes_ section and include the {{ signup.coupon_code }} merge tag in the thank-you page. To edit the default thank-you page, select the **Thank You Page Design** card in the _Create_ step. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/24655f5c-a2cd-458f-8e31-f6fcdabd7738/Jane_Doe_thank-
you_page.png)

## Target the right audience

To ensure the display appears to the correct audience, move to the _Target_
step of the display builder and review the following settings:

  1. Set the **When to Show** setting to the **Immediately** option and **Save**. 
  2. Set the **Who to Show It To** setting to **Current URL contains** and then paste the name, channel, grouping, etc., that you included in your shareable URL (e.g., janedoe) into the _Value_ field. **Save**. 
  3. If the display has a predetermined expiration date, set the **How Long To Show It** setting to the desired date. If you make any changes, please select **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/90f03c7f-10cf-4a81-bf78-6338e8444d79/Target_settings_6.png)

## Follow-up the display

To sync the display's signups to another service or send a follow-up message
to the customers that submitted the display, move to the _Follow-up_ step, and
review the following optional options:

  1. Enable and customize the [default after signup email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/166-set-up-an-after-signup-email) to send an email to the individuals that decided to sign up for the display. 
  2. Select the **Create series** option to send additional after signup emails. 
  3. Select the **Sync signups** option to sync the signups to a list in a [linked account](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/accounts). If you're not using [Privy Email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/46-get-started-privy-email), this setting is critical as it ensures the contact information (e.g., Email address) is available in the third-party provider.
  4. Select the **Send text message** option to send an[ after signup text message](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-up-an-after-signup-text) to the individuals that decided to sign up for the display. 
  5. The **Notifications** setting allows you to enable or disable real-time notifications for your users. These notifications will alert the user of new display signups immediately. If there's no form, then this option will not appear. If you make any changes, please select **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/d1ac986f-c1e9-4036-bf1a-4a9311cee634/Follow-
up_settings.png)

**Note:** The text message option requires a [Privy
Text](https://www.privy.com/pricing) subscription. Additionally, a customer is
only eligible to receive texts if their phone number was collected via a Privy
display using the phone field, they checked the text opt-in checkbox, and they
answered "YES" to the double opt-in message sent to their number.

## Launch the display

Once the display has been created, the target audience selected, and any
desired follow-up messages configured, select the **Publish** button at the
upper right of the display builder and confirm your decision in the prompt.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/e5ee3305-6394-403a-baa5-29cc579370dc/Lauch_the_display.png)

The display is now active, and your influencer can start sharing the
appropriate shareable URL via their content. It will appear to visitors that
qualify like this:

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/cdf7bc04-7420-4329-b1a9-23be456b0d22/Influencer_display_in_action.gif)

# What's next?

Consider reaching out to contacts that signup via an influencer display with
tailored email content using a "By Display" [custom
segment](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/136-use-custom-and-smart-
segments-in-email) for a
[newsletter](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-newsletter-
emails).

