---
categories:
- strategy
collection: displays
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/58-use-a-qr-code-with-your-display
keywords:
- QR
- QR Code
- Share Code
name: Use a QR Code With Your Display
slug: use-a-qr-code-with-your-display
---
A QR-assisted display is ideal for tracking the return on investment (ROI) of
your marketing efforts at in-person events. The displays are suited for
incorporation into promotion merchandise, printed materials, signs, and event
stations. Regardless of the approach, the display presents a more tailored
message to the visitor based on their interaction with the QR content in an
effort to convert the visitor into a subscriber, customer, etc.

**What is a QR code?** QR codes, shorthand for "quick response" codes, are
square-shaped black-and-white symbols that people can scan using smartphones
to learn more about a product, service, or cause. The encrypted squares can
hold links, coupons, event details, and other information users might want to
take with them for reference later.

**Why are QR codes effective?** They make learning more quick and easy. If
consumers see a QR code somewhere, they can take out their mobile device, use
their camera or QR code scanning app, and "scan" the barcode to gain access to
additional information.

# Create your shareable QR code

### Pick your approach

There's no shortage of QR code generators out there. Some popular options
include [Shopify's free QR code generator](https://www.shopify.com/pos/qr-
code-generator) and [QR-Code-Generator.com](https://www.qr-code-
generator.com/), which allows you to customize various elements of your QR
code after signing up for free. However, if you're uninterested in using a
generator and use Google Chrome, you can quickly generate QR codes from your
browser. This is the approach shown in the remainder of the guide.

### Create the code

The display shown to visitors is based on the URL they visit following a scan
of the QR code. This means you want to select an easily identifiable URL for
your display. A typical approach would be your homepage with a specific tag
attached or an event-specific landing page. In this example, the Wicked Wicks
homepage is used with an "events" tag.

    
    
    https://wicked-wicks-candle-co.myshopify.com/?events
    

  

    
    
    The downloaded QR code looks something like the example below:Â 
    

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/613cbb52-5025-40e5-ba0b-1f578d384659/qrcode_wicked-
wicks-candle-co.myshopify.com_1.png)

Ultimately, your version of the shareable QR code will be what you use for
targeting in your display and what your team will share with their audience to
drive traffic to your site.

# Create and launch the display

To create the display in the Classic Designer:

  * Navigate to **Convert** > **All Displays** and click on the **New Display** button. 
  * On the _Templates_ dashboard, select Get Started under the "Prefer the classic creation experience?" card on the bottom right of the page, provide an internal name, and then click the **Create Display** button. 
  * In the _Create_ step of the display builder, select the desired**Form fields** and **Validations** for the display if you hope to collect signups. One field is recommended, while the validation depends on your intended audiences and desired discount availability. If the display is for an announcement and doesn't need a form element, disable the **Enable Form?** option. 
  * In the **Create** step of the display builder, select the desired**Form fields** and **Validations** for the display. A single email field is recommended. 
  * Next, select the **Add a Display** option. A popup or flyout is recommended. A flyout is especially useful as QR codes are meant to be scanned with mobile devices, and flyouts are mobile-responsive by default. 
  * Use the [display designer](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/100-use-the-build-your-own-display-designer) to configure the display to your liking, and select the **Save** option at the upper right when you are done with your changes. An example is shown below: 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/c041895b-7305-4d6c-b99c-ec3f38e9ff69/QR_display.png)

  * After saving, a new _Design_ section will be available under the _Create_ step. It's best practice to use a thank-you page after sign up action. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/1cbd0324-a3c1-4934-8de9-176f1b90bf86/After_signup_action.png)

  * If the display offers a discount, make sure to select a coupon in the _Coupon codes_ section and include the {{ signup.coupon_code }} merge tag in the thank-you page. Select the Thank You Page Design card in the Create step to edit the default thank-you page. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/fabbd04e-75c3-4fa5-9a93-2f0c5271b836/Coupon_in_Thank-
you_page.png)

## Target the right audience

To ensure the display appears to the correct audience, move to the _Target_
step of the display builder and review the following settings:

  1. Set the **When to Show** setting to the **Immediately** option and **Save**. 
  2. Set the **Who to Show It To** setting to **Current URL contains** and then past the term(s), that you included in your shareable QR code (e.g., events) into the _Value_ field. **Save**. 
  3. If the display has a predetermined expiration date, set the **How Long To Show It** setting to the desired date. If you make any changes, please select **Save**.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/60e0d791-6da1-4206-aebd-44da7479296c/Targeting.png)

## Follow-up the display

To sync the display's signups to another service or send a follow-up message
to the customers who submitted the display, move to the _Follow-up_ step and
review the following optional options:

  1. Enable and customize the [default after sign up email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/166-set-up-an-after-signup-email) to send an email to the individuals who decided to sign up for the display. 
  2. Select the **Create series** option to send additional after sign up emails. 
  3. Select the **Sync signups** option to sync the signups to a list in a [linked account](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/accounts). If you're not using [Privy Email](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/46-get-started-privy-email), this setting is critical as it ensures the contact information (e.g., email address) is available to the third-party provider.
  4. Select the **Send text message** option to send an[ after sign up text message](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-up-an-after-signup-text) to the individuals who decided to sign up for the display. 
  5. The **Notifications** setting allows you to enable or disable real-time notifications for your users. These notifications will alert the user of new display signups immediately. If there's no form, then this option will not appear. If you make any changes, please select **Save**.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/8dcc612d-c176-4d25-b969-6a3ab00f4a7a/Follow-
up.png)

**Note:** The text message option requires a [Privy
Text](https://www.privy.com/pricing) subscription. Additionally, a customer is
only eligible to receive texts if their phone number was collected via a Privy
display using the phone field, they checked the text opt-in checkbox, and they
answered "YES" to the double opt-in message sent to their number.

## Launch the display

Once the display has been created, the target audience selected, and any
desired follow-up messages configured, select the **Publish** button at the
upper right of the display builder and confirm your decision in the prompt.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/d8aed887-f849-477a-83bb-00cb9dc71c6e/Publish_the_display_8.png)

The display is now active, and your team can start sharing the appropriate QR
code via their content and events. It will appear to visitors that qualify
like this:

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/4ef6e1fc-
ca9b-443d-be05-5bfd0b3883cf/QR_code.gif)

