---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/444-add-preview-text-to-an-email
keywords: []
name: Add Preview Text to an Email
slug: add-preview-text-to-an-email
---
An email's preview text is displayed in the inbox after the subject line of an
email and is usually pulled from the first line of text within the body of the
email. Like an email's subject line, its preview text can mean the difference
between a recipient opening or deleting your email.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/cc134d6a-0e23-477d-bfc3-ac9bc8ce87ac/Standard_preview_text.png)

Fortunately, Privy enables you to edit and customize your preview text in a
couple of ways.

## Best Practices

There are two main ways you should use preview text to increase the
effectiveness of your emails:

  * Use the preview text to summarize the email.
  * Use the preview text to complement your subject line.

If you do not specifically add preview text to an email, inboxes will
automatically pull it from the first line of text within an email. This means
that a confusing combination of your logo's ALT text, your navigation bar
options, or various other elements could be pulled in as the preview text
instead.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/f9a82a98-e529-4fee-99e4-d00b264f6c4f/Preview_text_without_customization.png)

When creating your preview text, it's also important to be concise. Your
recipients' devices, email clients, and settings directly affect the preview
text they see. A recipient could see anywhere from multiple lines of preview
text to 0 lines of preview text, but most will see an amount somewhere in
between. With this in mind, try to keep your preview text between 35 and 55
characters, especially as most emails are now opened on smaller mobile
screens.

## Add preview text to an email

To add preview text to an email, enter it into the **Preview Text (Optional)**
field in the Sender Info section of the [email
editor](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/225-use-the-drag-and-drop-
email-editor) and **Save**.

This approach is quick and easy. However, it should be noted that many email
clients will continue to pull in information from the email's body if the
preview text does not fill the recipient's entire view in their inbox. To
prevent this from occurring, consider trying the additional option outlined
below.

### Add custom-coded preview text

To create white space after your desired preview text so that email clients
don’t pull other distracting text or characters into the preview, you can use
a chain of zero-width non-joiners (‌&zwnj;) and non-breaking spaces (&nbsp;).
The repetition of “‌&zwnj;&nbsp;” fills any remaining preview text space and
should look something like this on the recipient's end:

To add this to your email:

  * Open the email editor for the desired email and ensure the **Preview Text (Optional)** field in the Sender Info section is blank. If this isn't cleared, the preview text will repeat. 
  * Next, add an **HTML** element to the top of your email from the sidebar. 
  * Paste the code listed below into the HTML element, making sure to input your desired preview text, and then **Save** your changes. 

    
    
    <div style="display: none; max-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">
    Your preview text here. 
    </div>
    
    <!-- Insert &zwnj;&nbsp; hack after hidden preview text -->
    <div style="display: none; max-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">
    &nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;&zwnj;&nbsp;
    </div>
    

  * Use the **Send Test Email** option to ensure the preview text displays properly. Depending on the length of your preview text, additional zero-width non-joiners may be required. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/09a0b4eb-34ed-4895-a1a1-704ddc0825d8/Add_preview_text_-
_HTML.gif)

As a reminder, the recipient should see something like this after these
changes:

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-12/4cb8389a-c88a-4316-9c9d-17450648e58b/Custom_coded_preview_text.png)

