---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/301-add-images-to-displays-and-emails
keywords: []
name: Add Images in an Emails
slug: add-images-to-displays-and-emails
---
Images are crucial for making messages easy to understand. Because the human
brain processes images better than written language, photos and other visual
designs convey information faster than text, reducing the readerâ€™s response
time to the message. [Studies show](https://medium.com/@iDashboards_UK/on-
average-people-remember-only-20-of-what-they-read-but-80-of-what-they-
see-8411224769e2) that people only remember 10% of what they hear and 20% of
what they read, but 80% of what they see.

## To add an image to your email:

  * Navigate to **Email + Text** and choose or create an email.
  * Go to the **Design** step, select an existing image, or drag and drop a content element from the  _Content_  _tab_ in the sidebar into a layout block in your email template.
  * On the side panel, click the **Upload Image** button to open the _Photo Manager_.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66abbddf9638c36b868f2097/file-
xJ7uwElR6C.gif)

On the _Photo Manager_ , choose the source of your upload:

  1. **\+ Upload New Photo** : Use this button to upload an image from your device. 
  2. **Select Shopify Product** : Use this button to pull an image from your Shopify products collection.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-30/9e9dba7a-6bbf-4ee8-a94d-43489a617054/Upload_or_select_a_Shopify_product_image.gif)

Click the **Use This Photo** button to add it to your email.

**Note:** You can add only one image to the _Photo Manager_ on each upload.

## Logo and Default image

Check [this article](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/174-manage-your-
company-branding) to set a company logo and default image for your Privy
account.

## Best practices for using marketing images

### Brand identity

Maintaining your brand identity is essential for immediate recognition by
email recipients. Remember that the quality of your images affects how your
brand is perceived; therefore, design aesthetics, style elements, and images
must look professional and match your identity.

### Relevance

The images in your campaigns and emails should be relevant to your message.
Everything must be consistent, from the subject line to the CTA (call-to-
action). Remember to provide a clear offer in each campaign or email, and
ensure that everything in your message implies that.

### File type and size

Following Privy's recommendations regarding file types and sizes ensures
visitors have the optimal experience when engaging with your campaigns or
emails. Check the [guidelines for creative
assets](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/80-guidelines-for-creative-
assets) for details.

### Alt text

Complying with [ADA guidelines](https://www.ada.gov/resources/web-guidance/)
for Web Accessibility requires including alt text in your images. Rename your
image files to the desired alt text, and Privy will automatically set it up on
the image upload. Remember to keep your last text concise and to include
keywords. For more information on ADA compliance with Privy, visit [this
article](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/88-ada-compliance-with-
privy).

