---
categories:
- automations
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/545-set-up-an-after-signup-email
keywords: []
name: Set Up an After Signup Email
slug: set-up-an-after-signup-email
---
The after-signup email is a one-time email sent to contacts after they sign
up. The first in a potential series is available to all accounts.

# Create an after-signup email

To create an after-signup email:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** > **All Displays** via the main navigation.
  * Select the display in need of an after-signup email.
  * Select the **Follow-up** step in the display builder.
  * Click on the email card in the After Signup Emails section to open the email builder.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66b52246493fd0116031ed74/file-
ntyyL9oDFv.gif)

  * Within the email builder, you will find a drag-and-drop editor that allows you to add text, video, images, and more. You can also edit the email's subject line, preview text, and reply to address by selecting these settings at the top left. 

# Personalize an after-signup email

With the general content and layout of your email in place, it's recommended
that you add in some personalization, as personalized emails have a
significantly higher click rate.

To personalize your emails, click into the email's body content, subject line,
or preview text and include a supported merge tag. Inputting merge tags into
the email's body content is a bit easier, as the editor provides a **Merge
Tags** dropdown menu listing common tags (e.g., Contact Name) and custom tags
associated with your account's custom contact fields.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-20/e92ee5ed-1257-4839-a5a6-f0f50b189bf3/Personalize_an_after_signup.gif)

**Note:** Not every contact will have the required information to fill your included merge tag. To prevent any issues this lack of data may cause, you can include a default fallback value. To add default strings to variables, use the following syntax: **{{ contact.first_name | default: "there"}}** \- In this example, Privy would attempt to populate the email with the contact's name but would use "there" if a value is unavailable (e.g., Hey {blank}, vs. Hey there,).

# Test an after-signup email

After finalizing the email's content and any associated personalization, you
should test it to ensure it arrives as expected. To initiate a test, select
the Send test email option at the top right. The test email will be sent to
the email you use to log into Privy and personalized with any information that
Privy has about you as a contact.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-20/7f58f75f-5259-4e0b-b0e8-dd539366d8b0/Test_an_after_signup_email.gif)

# Decide if it's a series

Once you're done customizing the email, you must decide if the display will
have a single after-signup email or a series of messages. If you would like to
make it a series:

  * Select the **Save** option in the upper right for the current email. 
  * In the **Follow-Up** step of the display builder, select the **Create series**
  * Follow the steps discussed above to create an additional email. A new configurable **Schedule** setting will be available in the email's sending settings. This setting determines the amount of time between each email in your series.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-20/e623a86a-2a93-4761-b521-ee8f22bbff4c/Schedule_setting.png)

  * Repeat these steps until the desired series is complete.

# Enable an after-signup email

After signup emails are enabled by default on active displays, meaning that
they will immediately start sending to new signups if the following criteria
are met:

  * The display contains an email field and a [coupon code](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/72-create-and-manage-coupon-codes).
  * The account has a _Website URL_ address set (if you are unsure, you can confirm it on the [Business Information](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info) page).
  * The display type is not [Phone Capture](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/199-create-a-phone-capture-display) or [Two-Step](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/93-create-a-two-step-display).

**Note:** Accounts created before May 26, 2022, won't automatically enable
after signup emails. Manually switching the **Published?** toggle to the ON
position is required.

If your display does not meet the criteria above, manually activate your
after-signup email or series following these steps:

  * You can save any email you are working on by selecting the **Save** option at the top right. This action will bring you back to the  _follow-up step for_ the display builder. 
  * Enable each email by switching the **Published?** toggle to the ON position. If the display is active, the email(s) will start sending to contacts who submit the display immediately. Make sure your content is customer-ready before taking this action.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66b5247548915f570c6a924f/file-
XHoM7TZePQ.png)

**Note:** If you sync to an external marketing service, please review its
settings to ensure you know how many emails your contacts will receive. For
example, you would want to avoid sending multiple welcome messages to the same
contact from different services.

# Review performance

Once your display and after-signup email(s) are live, the display Follow-up
tab shows the number of your customized marketing messages that have been sent
and opened.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66b524a78919a15d1b1d2992/file-K8X1SqoYMn.png)

