---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/450-use-the-drag-and-drop-email-editor
keywords: []
name: Use the Drag-and-Drop Email Editor
slug: use-the-drag-and-drop-email-editor
---
The drag-and-drop email editor allows you to quickly and easily create email
messages, such as newsletters and purchase follow-ups, that your qualifying
customers will receive. Use email to share updates with your subscribers,
promote special offers, or encourage a purchase. Each email created with the
editor will render a clean and responsive design on almost any email client
and device type.

While the drag-and-drop email editor is recommended for most users due to its
ease of use, you can work with custom HTML if you already have a template or
if you prefer to work directly with your code. Check out [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/172-use-an-html-email-template)
if you are interested in using an HTML email template.

# Create a new email

To create a new email and access the email editor:

  * For [Abandoned Cart](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/39-send-abandoned-cart-emails), [Customer Winback](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/55-send-a-customer-winback-email), [Welcome](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/130-send-a-welcome-series), and [Purchase Follow-up](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/131-send-purchase-follow-up-emails) emails, select the **Automations** dropdown menu, click the **New automation** button, and select the desired email type. Then click the edit icon under the email that you would like to edit.
  * For one-time emails, select the **Campaigns** dropdown menu and click the **New email** button.
  * For existing emails, click the **Edit Design** button.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/90ca38c0-e76c-4954-a94b-e35a34f29ff5/Drag_and_Drop_editor_-
_edit_design.png)

# Edit the email's styles

To change the styles of your email, select the **Body** tab from the sidebar.
This page allows you to change the width and alignment of the email's content.
Additionally, it allows you to update the default background color, font, and
link styling options for content added to the template. Content already
included or added to the template will not change.

**Note:** A content width larger than 600px is not recommended.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/02659d41-c5dd-4b9d-940a-8fea63a3f93d/Drag_and_Drop_editor_-
_edit_body.png)

# Edit the email's layout

To edit your template layout, select an existing block in the preview or click
and drag a new layout from the sidebar's**Blocks** tab.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/4afb8f42-18ca-48ae-9386-b9b06ab30d1a/drag_and_drop_-
_body_columns.gif)

To further modify your existing layout, hover over a block. This action allows
you to **move** the block, **duplicate** the block, **delete** the block, or
edit the size of the columns of the block.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/011e949a-3643-46dc-9d56-3152dfdeaada/Drag_and_drop_-
_move_rows.gif)

# Edit the email's content

To add content to your template, click and drag a content element from the
**Content** tab in the sidebar into a layout block in your email template. If
you are adding images, consider checking out the [Guidelines for Creative
Assets](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/80-guidelines-for-creative-
assets) guide for recommendations and best practices. To modify existing
content, click on an element. Elements that contain text are editable inline
with the rich text toolbar, while all other elements are customized via the
sidebar options.

**Note:** Any layout block that doesn't contain actual content will result in
a blank space in your final email. This can be useful for creating space
around an image or button.

Including merge tags can personalize your text. These tags pull values
directly from your email recipients' contact profiles.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/d51aa3cf-21ca-4f37-9c18-3a103cfb47ce/Personalization_example.png)

# Edit the email's sender info

To edit the email's sender information, click into the sender settings section
at the top of the email editor and configure the following options.

  1. **Confirm or select a reply-to address**. Any replies to the email will go to this address. 
  2. **Edit the subject line**. Keep it interesting, on-brand, and concise. It is recommended that the subject line be no longer than 7 words or around 40 characters. 
  3. **Provide preview text**. The text appears after your subject line when viewing the email in the inbox and allows the addition of compelling copy that helps boost open rates and engagement. The text should be 35 to 55 characters and will support Merge Tags.

**Note:** The default "From Name" and "From Address" can be updated in the
Sender Options section of your [Business
Information](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info) settings.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/ac2a39bf-7d6d-497b-9820-90b6be308059/Send_a_newsletter_-
_subject_and_preview_1.gif)

# Preview and test the email

Before you send, schedule, or publish your email, you can preview what it will
look like to your recipients on different device types. You can also send a
test email to yourself.

  * To preview the email on different device types, select the **Preview** option at the bottom right of the editor, followed by the desired desktop or mobile view tab. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/ab7c221a-84c0-43d5-a670-f810aab1276c/drag_and_drop_-
_preview.png)

  * To send a test email to yourself, select the**Send Test Email option at the top-right of the editor.**

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/73ec590b-4ad5-4ce4-9174-1bb4906456f7/drag_and_drop_-
_send_test.png)

**Note:** Privy can send up to 5 test emails to registered
[users](https://help.privy.com/article/493-add-or-remove-users) to your
account.

# Send, schedule, or activate

To make the email available to your customers once its design, content, and
settings are ready:

  * Click the **Save** button in the email builder if you haven't already done so.
  * For one-time emails, move to the email **Settings** step and click the **Send** or the **Schedule** button. For all other email types, move to the **Settings** step and click the **Activate** button to allow for automated sending to future qualifying recipients. 
  * Confirm your decision in the subsequent prompt. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-11/8e2bd8a7-436f-4d18-a7cc-276ea52b3ecb/drag_and_drop_-
_send_sched-min_1.gif)

