---
categories:
- create-send
collection: email
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/51-use-utm-tags-in-privy-emails
keywords:
- Email
- UTM
- UTM Parameters
- UTM Tags
- Click Tracking
- Click-tracking
name: Use UTM tags in Privy Emails
slug: use-utm-tags-in-privy-emails
---
UTM tags, also known as Urchin Tracking Module parameters, are snippets of
text added to the end of a URL for tracking purposes. Privy adds UTM tags to
the links in your email to help answer questions about your traffic,
including:

  * Why is the traffic coming to your site?
  * Where is the traffic coming from?
  * How is the traffic getting to you?

Tags can also be referenced in[ display targeting
rules](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/70-use-audience-targeting-
conditions) to improve visitor conversion rates.

**Note:** Looking to learn more about how Privy tracks your email engagement,
including how click and open tracking works? Check out [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/120-understand-email-
engagement).

# What can UTM tags track?

UTM tags tell the story of how your traffic is getting to you. There are five
tag types available; however, Privy's default functionality leverages the
three primary tags outlined below:

  * **Display** \- This tag groups all traffic from a specific effort, such as a seasonal promotion, in your analytics tool and answers the "Why is the traffic coming to me?" question.
  * **Source** \- This tag tells you which website/referrer is sending you traffic, such as a search engine or partner like Privy, and answers the "Where is the traffic coming from?" question. 
  * **Medium** \- This tag tells you the type of marketing medium that is included the tracked link, such as a social post or email, and answers the "How is the traffic getting to me?" question. 

Each of these tags is added to your original link, which is known as the
**Destination URL**. When combined, the destination URL and tags reveal a
particular journey. For example:

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/1aadfb67-bfc2-410c-8b51-85e745c64693/UTM_Story.png)

# How do Privy emails use tags?

Privy automatically adds the Display, Source, and Medium UTM tags to the links
in your email, including links assigned to buttons, images, and text.

## What will the tags look like?

When an email is tested or sent to contacts, the tags are added to the end of
your links. The easiest way to see the tags is to click a link and review the
URL in the browser bar. For example:

  * Your link in the email editor may have been `https://www.example.com/`
  * Meanwhile, the clicked link would look like `https://www.example.com/?utm_campaign=privy_1703874&utm_medium=email&utm_source=privy`

As you can see in the example, the default tags use the following format:

  * utm_campaign=privy_###
  * utm_source=privy
  * utm_medium=email

The "###" portion of the utm_campaign tag will populate with the ID of the
email (e.g., Newsletter) or Privy Convert display after signup email that
included the UTM tags. These IDs appear in your browser bar when creating,
editing, or viewing the content in Privy.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/bdc5bfe2-0703-40df-9325-de2245b9315d/Email_ID.png)

Copying an ID from a tracked link and incorporating it into one of the links
below will bring you directly to the content in Privy as long as the content
hasn't been deleted.

    
    
    **Email Links** - https://dashboard.privy.com/emails/insert_id_here
    
    
    **Display After Signup Links** - https://dashboard.privy.com/displays/insert_id_here
    

## Can I override or disable tags?

You can override but cannot disable Privy's default UTM tags.

**Override the default tags**

To override the default tags, update your email with links that already
include UTM tags. When the links in your email already contain UTM tags, Privy
will not overwrite them. Google offers a [UTM builder](https://ga-dev-
tools.appspot.com/campaign-url-builder/) that makes it super easy to build
your own UTM links.

**Note:** UTM parameters are case-sensitive. Consider tracking your manually
created UTM links in a spreadsheet to maintain the same formatting and
taxonomy.

**Disable the default tags**

The default Privy UTM tags cannot be disabled at this time.

# How do I report on tags?

Once you've been tagging and tracking your links with UTMs for a while, you
will be able to better understand and report on how visitors get to your site
via most analytics tools - the most popular of which is Google Analytics. To
review UTM data in Google Analytics:

  * Log into your [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/) account.
  * From the dashboard, select **Acquisitions** > **All Traffic** > **Source/Medium**. 
  * Locate _Privy / Email_ in the _Source / Medium_ column. 

Additionally, each email's click count is available via their respective
dashboard (e.g., Newsletters) and by reviewing their individual [performance
reports](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/226-analyze-email-
performance).

# How do I target tags?

You cn use Website Behavior [audience targeting
rules](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/70-use-audience-targeting-
conditions) to include or exclude traffic matching the UTM tags from your
Privy Convert Displays. For example, if you wanted to show a unique display to
contacts arriving from an email sent from Privy:

  * Navigate to **Convert** >**All Displays.**
  * Select the desired display and switch to the **Target** step. 
  * Select the **Who To Show It To** setting and click **Add targeting condition**.
  * Click the dropdown menu listed under the  _Property_ header and select the **Current URL** option from the  _Website Behavior_ section. 
  * Add **Contains** rules that reference _utm_medium=email_ AND _utm_source=privy_. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/1e134da4-d12e-475b-9d52-83712bfad302/UTM_targeting.png)

  * **Save** the new rules and, if needed, publish the display. The display will only appear to contacts that have these UTMs in the URL. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/f61f978a-50b8-4ff3-8c3e-ad043071c19f/Example_UTM_display.gif)

