---
categories:
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/46-get-started-privy-email
keywords:
- Privy Email
- Abandoned Cart Email
- Core
- Customer Winback
- Ger Started
- Getting Started
- Newsletters
- Purchase Follow Up
name: Get Started With Privy Email
slug: get-started-privy-email
---
Communication is critical if you want to retain customers. The resources below
will help jumpstart those communications by ensuring you know what options are
available to you.

# Import and manage your contacts

A contact is an individual whose interaction with your business has prompted
the creation of a profile in your Privy account. The information stored in
these records empowers you to create more focused displays via audience
targeting and enables you to send eligible recipients marketing or sales
communications.

Before importing contacts from an external source, such as a previous service
provider, it's essential to [evaluate the health of your list and ensure its
compliance](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/149-privy-email-and-sms-
compliance) with Privy's guidelines.

Once you've reviewed those resources and scrubbed your list(s), get your
contacts into Privy by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/50-create-and-manage-contacts).

# Set your mailing address

Marketing emails must include your business's physical address and a link for
contacts to manage their email subscription to comply with anti-spam
legislation. Privy will automatically add the appropriate unsubscribe link,
but you must update your address information before sending any emails. Set
your mailing address by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/141-update-your-email-footer-
address).

# Determine your branding

Your account's brand settings allow you to select a default color and font
along with a default set of social links and a default logo. Updating these
options makes creating content easier and helps ensure consistency across your
various displays and messages. Determine your branding by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/174-manage-your-company-
branding).

# Configure your sending domain

By default, the address used to send emails from Privy is
offers@privymktg.com. However, this address can be updated to reflect your
specific domain and brand instead. This simple change typically increases your
open rates and deliverability because the sending address is instantly
recognizable to your customers. Customize your sending domain by following
[these steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/33-use-a-custom-sending-
domain).

# Send the right email

Privy supports a wide range of email types so that you can send the right
message, to the right person, at the right time.

## Send Abandoned Cart Emails

Abandoned cart emails are one of the most valuable tools for an e-commerce
business. Sent individually or as part of a series, these messages target
customers who added items to their cart but failed to complete the
transaction. Start saving sales by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/39-send-abandoned-cart-emails).

## Send Welcome Emails

A welcome email is incredibly important for any e-commerce business. Sent
individually or as part of a series, these messages allow you to set the tone
for the rest of your relationship with a new subscriber and prospective future
customer. Furthermore, the average welcome email has an open rate of 91%, so
your welcome email will likely have one of the highest open rates of any email
you send, which means it's something you can't afford to skip. [Learn
more](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/130-send-a-welcome-series).

## Send Customer Winback emails

Customer Winback emails let you automatically engage with customers who
haven't bought from you in a while. This re-engagement is significant because
repeat customers are 9x more likely to convert, spend 3x the average order
value of first-time buyers, and are 20% more profitable for your business over
the long term. Start driving repeat purchases by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/55-send-a-customer-winback-
email).

## Send Newsletters

Newsletters are a powerful tool for any e-commerce business. The messages sent
through this channel can circulate important information, establish your
brand's reputation, strengthen your relationship with customers, and help move
recipients through your sales funnel. Start creating beautiful, branded emails
that engage your current subscribers by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/169-send-newsletter-emails).

## Send Purchase Follow-up Emails

Setting up a purchase follow-up email is one of the most effective things you
can do for your business. The post-purchase period is a crucial point in your
customer's journey, and a purchase follow-up email provides you the
opportunity to build brand loyalty and create repeat customers. BigCommerce,
Shopify, and Wix users also have the ability to [add order
summaries](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/92-add-an-order-summary-to-
emails) to your purchase follow-up email. Start fostering your post-sale
relationships by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/131-send-purchase-follow-up-
emails).

## Send an After Signup Series

In addition to the email types outlined above, you can create automated emails
or coupon reminders tied to a specific onsite display from within the "Follow-
up" step of the display builder. These series are kicked off when someone
signs up for your display and sends on the schedule you determine.

