---
categories:
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/101-get-started-with-privy-text
keywords:
- Core
- Getting Started
- SMS
- Text
- Text Messaging
name: Get Started with Privy Text
slug: get-started-with-privy-text
---
The simplicity and pervasiveness of text messaging have enabled it to emerge
as a potent channel for businesses. The resources below will help jumpstart
your communications via this channel by ensuring you know what options are
available to you in Privy.

**Note:**[Privy
Text](https://www.privy.com/pricing?utm_source=knowledgebase&utm_medium=article)
messages can only be sent to numbers registered in the United States and
Canada (+1 country code) at this time. Your business/industry must also not
conflict with any of the content restrictions outlined in Privy's [Acceptable
Use Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy) to send messages.

# Collect New Textable Contacts

A contact is an individual whose interaction with your business has prompted
the creation of a profile in your Privy account. The information stored in
these records empowers you to create more focused displays via audience
targeting and enables you to send eligible recipients marketing or sales
communications.

**Note:** Privy does not accept imported phone numbers as textable contacts.
Instead, a contact's phone number must be collected through a Privy form with
the phone field and the Text Opt-in Disclaimer, and the contact must have
answered "YES" to the [double opt-
in](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/135-understand-double-opt-in-doi)
message sent to their number to receive texts from Privy. This series of
actions provides [explicit
consent](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/206-understand-marketing-
consent) and ensures [SMS
compliance](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/149-privy-email-and-sms-
compliance).

Start collecting text contacts by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/137-collect-phone-numbers).

# Send the Right Text

Multiple text types are available to send the right message, to the right
person, at the right time.

## Send Abandoned Cart Texts

If you are integrated with Shopify, Shopify Plus, BigCommerce, Weebly, or Wix
you can send abandoned cart messages to contacts who: visit your site, add an
item to their cart, and then leave without completing the purchase. Sending
these messages encourages your contacts to complete their purchase and is one
of the most impactful things you can do to recover revenue for your business.
Start saving sales by following [these
steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/68-send-abandoned-cart-texts).

## Send After Signup Texts

After signup text messages are tied to a specific Privy Convert display and
are sent instantaneously to eligible recipients when they sign. After signup
texts are great for delivering a display's coupon or thanking the shopper for
their interest. [Learn more](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-
up-an-after-signup-text).

## Send Broadcast Texts

Broadcast text messages are sent to a filtered segment of contacts or all of
your contacts at once. These broadcast texts sometimes referred to as bulk SMS
or mass texting, are perfect for special announcements or updates and benefit
from exceptionally high open rates compared to other marketing channels due to
the direct nature of the communication. [Learn
more](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/179-send-a-broadcast-text).

