---
categories:
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/549-get-started-with-privy
keywords: []
name: Get Started With Privy
slug: get-started-with-privy
---
Welcome to Privy! If you are new to email and SMS marketing or want to
understand better how to set up for success, grow your contact list, and drive
revenue through email and SMS automations and campaigns, this is the guide for
you.

From building your contact list to reducing cart abandonment and increasing
sales, Privy empowers businesses of all sizes to optimize their marketing
efforts and maximize their potential. In this article, we'll explore the many
ways Privy can revolutionize your e-commerce strategy, helping you connect
with customers, boost conversions, and ultimately accelerate your sales
growth. Whether you're a seasoned e-commerce retailer or just starting out,
discover how Privy can take your e-commerce game to the next level.

## Connect your Store to Privy

Privy integrates with most major e-commerce platforms, such as
[Shopify](https://help.privy.com/article/507-install-privy-on-shopify),
[BigCommerce](https://help.privy.com/article/361-install-privy-on-
bigcommerce), [Wix.](https://help.privy.com/article/343-install-privy-on-wix)
or another e-commerce provider to integrate your store with Privy, install the
Privy app through your e-commerce platform’s app store.

Once you go through the approval process, your store will be integrated with
Privy! You can also manage the integration in [Linked
Accounts](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/accounts) in Settings.

## Import Contacts

Importing contacts with Privy is straightforward; you can seamlessly integrate
your existing customer data into the platform.

If you have integrated your Shopify stores, contacts sync automatically
between Shopify and Privy. First names, last names, emails, and purchase
history are automatically imported to Privy. If you have other contacts you
wish to import, click Add Contacts on the [Contacts
Page](https://dashboard.privy.com/contacts) to use our Import Wizard to upload
a CSV file.

  * [Import and Manage Contacts](https://help.privy.com/category/278-importing-contacts)
  * [Contacts vs. Signups](https://help.privy.com/article/328-contacts-vs-signups)
  * [Overview of Contact Attributes](https://help.privy.com/article/321-overview-of-contact-attributes)
  * [Understand Contact Auto-Rejection](https://help.privy.com/article/311-understand-contact-auto-rejection)

**Note:** Only contacts for which you have received marketing consent can be
emailed under Privy’s terms of use. All contact imports are subject to
compliance review.

## Set up your Custom Email Domain and DNS Records

Setting up your custom domain and DNS records is essential for email marketing
success. It boosts brand credibility, reduces the risk of emails being marked
as spam, and ensures brand consistency. Proper authentication gives you
control over email deliverability and enhances overall marketing
effectiveness. In short, it's a strategic move to foster trust, improve
engagement, and drive business growth.

Check out our guides for [Setting Up Your Custom
Domain](https://help.privy.com/article/33-use-a-custom-sending-domain) and
[DMARC/DKIM/SPF Record
Authentication](https://help.privy.com/article/10-dmarc-dkim-spf-record-
authentication). Should you need assistance, you can set up a meeting with our
DNS expert here. You can also reach out to Support via email or chat here.

## Creating your first Display

Creating your first onsite display can feel overwhelming, but remember that
every expert started where you are now. It's perfectly normal to have
questions and concerns. Take it one step at a time, trust your creativity, and
don't be afraid to ask for help or [seek
inspiration](https://www.privy.com/popup-examples). Your unique perspective
will shine through, and before you know it, you'll have created something you
can be proud of.

  * [Create Your First Onsite Display](https://help.privy.com/article/234-launch-your-first-display)
  * [Get Started with Privy Email](https://help.privy.com/article/46-get-started-privy-email)
  * [Get Started with Privy Text ](https://help.privy.com/article/101-get-started-with-privy-text)

## Collect Contacts and Improve On-Site Conversion through Displays

Collecting contacts and improving on-site conversion through displays are
crucial for enhancing customer engagement and boosting sales. By gathering
contact information, businesses can nurture leads and foster relationships,
while effective on-site displays can capture visitors' attention and drive
immediate actions, resulting in higher conversion rates.

  * [Spin to Win Display](https://help.privy.com/article/518-create-a-spin-to-win-display)
  * [Cart Saver](https://help.privy.com/article/489-create-a-cart-saver-display)
  * [Welcome Discount](https://help.privy.com/article/488-create-a-welcome-discount-display)
  * [SMS Collection](https://help.privy.com/article/483-collect-phone-numbers)

## Privy Automations - A Running Start

Running automated emails with Privy simplifies your marketing efforts by
allowing you to create personalized, timely messages that engage your
customers without constant manual input. This automation helps build stronger
customer relationships and drives more conversions while saving you valuable
time.

[**Abandoned Cart Emails**](https://help.privy.com/article/515-send-abandoned-
cart-emails) are an important tool for e-commerce success. They help recover
potentially lost sales by reminding customers about items left in their carts
and nudging them to complete their purchases. These emails capitalize on
customer interest, reduce cart abandonment rates, and ultimately drive revenue
growth for your business.

[**Welcome Emails**](https://help.privy.com/article/492-send-a-welcome-series)
are essential for building strong relationships with new subscribers or
customers. These emails warmly introduce your brand, set expectations, and
offer valuable incentives or information. By engaging new contacts early on,
welcome emails lay the foundation for long-term customer loyalty, increase
brand affinity, and boost overall email marketing effectiveness.

[**Purchase Follow-Up Emails**](https://help.privy.com/article/490-send-
purchase-follow-up-emails)are a critical part of the customer journey,
offering an opportunity to express gratitude, gather feedback, and encourage
repeat purchases. These emails reinforce positive experiences, build trust,
and foster long-term customer relationships. By staying connected post-
purchase, you can enhance customer satisfaction, drive loyalty, and,
ultimately, increase lifetime customer value.

[**Customer Winback Emails**](https://help.privy.com/article/363-send-a-
customer-winback-email) are vital in re-engaging lapsed customers and
revitalizing their interest in your brand. These emails are a strategic tool
to rekindle relationships, remind customers of your value proposition, and
offer incentives to encourage their return. By addressing potential reasons
for their disengagement and providing personalized offers, winback emails can
effectively convert dormant customers into active, loyal patrons, ultimately
boosting retention rates and enhancing long-term profitability.

## Learn more

Looking for more information on strategy and best practices? Check out our
[Blog](https://www.privy.com/blog/all); it's packed with lots of helpful
information. Our Support agents are available to chat with you Monday through
Friday, 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. ET, and via email at
[support@privy.com](mailto:support@privy.com) Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m.
to 6:00 p.m. ET.

