---
categories:
- getting-started
collection: onboarding
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/552-understanding-privys-attribution-model
keywords: []
name: "Understanding Privy\u2019s Attribution Model"
slug: understanding-privys-attribution-model
---
## What is attribution?

Attribution in marketing refers to identifying and assigning credit to the
various touchpoints a customer interacts with before making a purchase. It
helps in understanding which marketing efforts are driving conversions and
generating revenue.

## How does attribution work at Privy?

Privy attributes an order if a contact engages (opens or clicks) with a
marketing message and completes the order within 7 days. There are a few more
points to keep in mind:

  * Last Touch Attribution: Orders are attributed to the last message a contact engaged with. For example, if a subscriber opens a Campaign email and later opens an Abandoned Cart Automation email before purchasing, the order is attributed to the Abandoned Cart Automation.
  * Multi-Channel Attribution: Privy evaluates each channel's attribution window separately when using multiple message channels (SMS or email). This determines if either channel should receive revenue attribution at the time of purchase.
  * Conversion Window: The conversion window for both email and SMS is 7 days, starting from the moment of engagement.
  * Contact-based Attribution: Privy uses a contact’s email address and phone number to attribute an order back to a contact. 

## How does attribution work for Automations that send multiple emails?

Similar to Campaigns, marketing messages sent by Automations use a last-touch
interaction model. For example, an Abandoned Cart Automation may have emails
sent one hour after the abandoned cart event, followed by 24 hours if there is
no order. Privy would attribute any orders to the last email a contact engaged
with. In Privy, you can view attribution data aggregated for all emails in an
Automation series and data for an individual message.

## Why do attributed revenue and orders not match what I see elsewhere?

Attributed revenue and orders in Privy might not match other reports due to
differences in attribution models. For example:

  * Different Attribution Windows: Other platforms may use different time frames for attribution.
  * Touch-based vs. Click-based Attribution: Some tools or e-commerce platforms may use narrower attribution models, such as only providing attribution credit to the last click. 
  * Multi-Touch vs. Last-Touch Attribution: Some systems credit the last touchpoint, while others may distribute credit across multiple touchpoints.
  * Data Processing Delays: Timing differences in data updates and synchronization can cause discrepancies.

Attributed revenue in Privy should be considered a proxy or indicator of the
effectiveness of your email and SMS marketing efforts. While our attribution
model aims to provide a clear picture of which marketing activities are
driving conversions, it is not the complete source of truth. For a
comprehensive understanding of your marketing performance, it's important to
consider attributed revenue alongside other metrics and data sources.

## Does Attribution Work Differently Between Emails and SMS?

Yes, attribution works differently between emails and SMS due to the nature of
these channels:

  * Emails: Attribution in emails is based on opens and/or clicks. This tracking is accomplished through hidden, embedded tracking links and pixels automatically included in each email.
  * SMS: SMS attribution uses link tracking, as SMS messages do not support tracking pixels. When a recipient clicks on a link in an SMS, their activity is tracked and attributed accordingly.

## How does Attribution work for Displays?

An order is counted when someone signs up for your Privy display and then
completes a purchase through your store using the same email address or phone
number at any point in the future. Privy counts an order regardless of whether
or not the customer used a discount code. This attribution model helps
merchants understand which displays ultimately lead to orders.

For more information, please visit <https://help.privy.com/article/184-what-
does-privy-consider-an-order> (NOTE: Need to update article title to “How does
Attribution Work for Displays?”

## Can I customize the attribution model?

It is not possible to change the attribution model. Privy adheres to industry-
standard attribution windows and methodologies.

## What if I have more questions?

Understanding attribution helps you optimize your marketing efforts by
identifying the most effective channels and strategies. If you have further
questions or need assistance, feel free to contact our [support
team](mailto:support@privy.com).

