---
categories:
- plays
- build-your-own
collection: displays
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/513-set-up-an-after-signup-text
keywords: []
name: Set Up an After Signup Text
slug: set-up-an-after-signup-text
---
The after-signup text message is a one-time text sent to contacts after
they've signed up with a valid phone number, checked the text opt-in checkbox,
and confirmed their desire to receive messages via double opt-in.

# Create a compatible display

To ensure you can send a text message to subscribers, make sure that the
display includes the **Phone** and **Text Opt-in** fields. Including these
fields guarantees you the necessary contact information and marketing
permissions. If the subscriber does not provide an accurate phone number and
check the opt-in, they will not be eligible for text messages.

To add the Phone and Text Opt-In fields to a display:

  * Navigate to the **Convert** >**All Displays** via the main navigation. 
  * Select **New Display**
  * Choose Collect SMS Subscribers from the menu on the left

**Note:** It's recommended that both a visitor's email address and phone
number be collected. This ensures the two identifiers are associated with one
another and provides the most comprehensive tracking and reporting options for
you moving forward.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/668448555940934e140f573f/file-
Nf7kB8Qoo1.gif)

# Create an after signup text

To create an after signup text message:

  * Navigate to the **Follow Up** step of the builder. 
  * Select the display in need of an after signup text. 
  * Click the **Send text message** button. This action automatically adds the _After Signup Text_ section to your _Follow-up_ settings.

# Personalize an after signup text

Once a text is created, click on it in the _After Signup Text_ section to
customize and personalize its content. It's recommended that you add in some
personalization, as personalized texts have a significantly higher engagement
rate. Use the **Personalize** dropdown menu to insert merge tags that
dynamically populate with information like the subscriber's first name or your
business name. A text preview is available to the right of the editing area.
Please make sure to save your changes by clicking the **Save** button at the
bottom right corner.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/710bea94-fde0-467a-8eea-6b10336a771f/Customize_the_text_message.gif)

**Note:** Personalization based on a contact's information (e.g., First Name)
is only recommended if you are confident that the information has already been
collected. For example, a display that collects text subscribers may only
appear to your existing contacts.

# Enable an after signup text

Enable the text by switching the **Status** toggle to the Active position. If
the display is active, the text will start sending to contacts who submit the
display immediately. Make sure your content is customer-ready before taking
this action.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/668449f05940934e140f5742/file-3TIMkGCmqT.png)

**Note:** All first-time text subscribers who check the text opt-in checkbox
will receive a double opt-in text message with your business name and an
option to YES (Subscribe) or STOP (Unsubscribe) the messages. If the recipient
does not reply YES, they will remain ineligible.

# Review performance

Once your display and after-signup text is live, you can see the number of
your customized marketing messages that have been sent and delivered via the
display's Follow-up tab.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/9118aeb7-2583-41ec-b876-8de83ea2a238/Text_stats.png)

