---
categories:
- compliance
collection: contacts
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/364-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr
keywords: []
name: General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
slug: general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr
---
The [General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)](https://gdpr.eu/) is a
European Union law that went into effect in May 2018. This privacy act gives
consumers more control over the personal information that businesses collect
and store about them. If you are looking for Privy's Data Processing Addendum,
click [here](https://www.privy.com/data-processing-addendum).

**Note:** This article is provided as a resource to help you understand what
Privy has done to assist its customers in their efforts to ensure GDPR
compliance. This is not legal advice, and abuse or use of the Privy platform
other than as described herein can still lead to non-compliance concerning
GDPR. Your legal team remains the best resource for compliance advice for your
specific situation as a data controller under GDPR.

# Key GDPR Takeaways

When utilizing Privy under GDPR, there are a few key areas to note:

  1. GDPR is centered around processing, storing, using, transmitting, and deleting the personal information of EU citizens.
  2. If consent is the basis for processing, the regulation requires that EU citizens take affirmative action to expressly consent to the specific use of their information.
  3. If a customer asks, you will need to be able to share the personal information you have stored with them and be ready to delete that information in a timely manner.

# How Privy addresses GDPR

Various updates were made so that Privy is able to address the takeaways
identified above:

  * The Privy platform allows users, even those on the free plan, to handle their customer data in a GDPR-compliant manner. For example, Privy collects the opt-in timestamp, IP address, and display of each contact who registers through a Privy-powered form. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/72b0f314-cc37-452a-86ba-2ab926070f93/Example_data.png)

  * Visitors to your site who are presented with a Privy form can only submit their personal information by intentionally typing it in and submitting the form. Our GDPR-friendly templates include consent text next to the form submission buttons for additional transparency.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/c7354544-08d2-40e4-8b4d-39b64fb3c40d/Example_Disclaimer.png)

  * Privy collects the opt-in timestamp, IP address, and display of each of your contacts who register through a Privy-powered form. This and any other collected analytics information are easily reviewable on the contact's profile.

If you need to respond to an individual’s deletion request, Privy makes it
incredibly quick and easy for you to access that customer’s data in your Privy
account and, if requested, delete it with the click of a button. If your
customer would like a fully GDPR-compliant removal from Privy or has a
different data subject request, please refer to [this
article](https://help.privy.com/article/297-how-does-privy-process-gdpr-and-
ccpa-requests).

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2024/01-23/033730f6-f63d-4494-82aa-359f7b74af46/Example_delete.png)

In addition to GDPR-compliant feature updates, Privy's [Terms and
Conditions](https://www.privy.com/terms-and-conditions), [Acceptable Use
Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy), and [Data Processing
Addendum](https://www.privy.com/data-processing-addendum) are available for
you to review. These documents are maintained to ensure that Privy follows
best practices and complies with any changes in legislation.

# Additional recommended actions

To provide the most transparency to your customers, consider adding a
customized disclaimer to your forms stating what will occur following the
signup. For example, by registering via your form, the contact agrees and
understands that you will do any of the following:

  * Store their contact info in your marketing database
  * Send them marketing emails
  * Track interactions with your website for your marketing displays.

If you would like to take things a step further, consider including an opt-in
checkbox as part of your form so that contacts can explicitly and
affirmatively consent to the collection and use of their personal data, as
described above.

