---
categories:
- compliance
collection: contacts
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/550-hard-vs-soft-bounces
keywords: []
name: Hard vs. Soft Bounces
slug: hard-vs-soft-bounces
---
When a recipient server blocks an incoming email, it’s called a bounce. When a
bounce happens, the receiving server usually provides a message stating the
reason for the bounce, allowing Privy to categorize them as soft or hard
bounces.

In this article, you’ll learn about some specific reasons why bounces can
happen and their effect on your contact list.

## Hard Bounces

Hard bounces indicate that the email address cannot receive emails
permanently. Some of the reasons for a hard bounce might be:

  * The email address is invalid or nonexistent
  * The recipient server is no longer active or has blocked emails permanently
  * The recipient user had a firewall or a strict spam filter

Once an email hard bounces, the recipient address will be automatically and
immediately marked as “suppressed: non-mailable,” permanently removing the
contact from your mailable contacts list.

## Soft Bounces

Soft bounces indicate a temporary issue that is preventing that address from
receiving emails at that time. Servers will continue to attempt to deliver the
email until a certain amount of time has passed without success before
officially sending back a bounce message. Some of the reasons for a soft
bounce might be:

  * Mailbox exceeds storage quota (full inbox).
  * Mailbox configuration is incorrect.
  * Mailbox is inactive.
  * Recipient's email server is offline.
  * Recipient's email server has received excessive emails within a timeframe.
  * Email size exceeds permissible limits.
  * Domain name may be temporarily unavailable.
  * Email content is blocked.
  * Email does not adhere to recipient server policies.
  * Email fails DMARC verification.

|

  * Email triggers recipient server's anti-spam measures.
  * Email triggers recipient server's anti-virus measures.
  * Email fails sender requirements of recipient server.
  * Email cannot be relayed between servers.
  * Email cannot be relayed due to unknown reasons.
  * Recipient’s email server blocked your message due to sending reputation.

  
---|---  
  
Soft bounces will not cause the email address to be marked as non-mailable but
can be persistent depending on the cause.

## How to find and analyze your campaign bounce rates and reports

Now that you have an idea of what the difference between hard and soft bounces
is, you can better analyze your bounce rates and access the detailed error
messages for more information about them.

First, to find your bounce rate on a Newsletter campaign, you’ll just need to
click on the desired newsletter, scroll down to the reporting area, and then
filter by “Bounced”:

Here you’ll be able to check individual contacts who have returned bounce
messages, and by clicking on their email address, you’ll see the separate
bounce error messages with more details:

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a3c29f9638c36b868f1c85/file-
JnIniLwrsr.gif)

This allows you to correct any possible causes of bounces and gain insights on
bounce issues that cannot be immediately resolved.

## What is a good bounce rate, and how can it be improved?

A good bounce rate will be 2% or lower. Anything between 2% and 5% is worth
investigating, and anything over 5% is considered critical and requires
immediate action for improvement.

Major points to take into account when it comes to a high rate of bounces are:

  * What are the major causes of bounces? You can assess this by looking at the bounce error messages in your email reports.
  * Are my domain settings within Privy correctly configured? You can assess this by checking your account’s [domain settings page](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/sending-domains). 

One other very important thing to note is that since February 2024,
[Google](https://support.google.com/a/answer/81126?hl=en) and
[Yahoo](https://senders.yahooinc.com/best-practices/) have set specific
requirements for email senders, including setting up authentication methods
such as DMARC, SPF, and DKIM records to send emails to their users’ inboxes.
These requirements can have a great impact on your deliverability and bounce
rate, so make sure to keep an eye on that.

We have an [article](https://help.privy.com/article/10-dmarc-dkim-spf-record-
authentication) that goes into more detail about this, but you can also reach
out to us for extra help by sending an email to
[support@privy.com](mailto:support@privy.com)

