---
categories:
- compliance
collection: contacts
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/297-how-does-privy-process-gdpr-and-ccpa-requests
keywords: []
name: How Does Privy Process GDPR and CCPA Requests?
slug: how-does-privy-process-gdpr-and-ccpa-requests
---
Privy has a process for honoring data subject requests related to various
compliance frameworks, including [CCPA](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa) and
[GDPR](https://gdpr.eu/). These frameworks entitle your contacts to more
control of their personal information. The contacts subject to these
frameworks have the right to request actions like:

  * **Deletion** : The right of deletion gives contacts the ability to direct a business to delete or anonymize all of their personally identifiable information.
  * **Opt-out** : The right to opt-out gives contacts the ability to direct a business not to sell their personal information to a third party. 
  * **Access** : The right of access gives contacts the ability to direct a business to provide all of the information that they have collected on them. 

Typically, these requests must be processed within 30 days. That said, these
rights are not absolute and can depend on the request's context, so it is
essential to be familiar with your current business situation and local
privacy laws. Learn more about Data Subject Access Rights by visiting our
[Privacy Policy](https://www.privy.com/privacy-policy), [Terms &
Conditions](https://www.privy.com/terms-and-conditions), and [Data Processing
Addendum](https://www.privy.com/data-processing-addendum).

**Note:** These requests shouldn't be processed unless prompted by a contact.
Additionally, while these features and resources are available from Privy,
your legal team remains the best resource for advice concerning your specific
compliance situation. If you're looking to remove your account information
from Privy instead of contact information, check out [this
resource](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/56-account-management-faq)
instead.

# Deletion request

To request a permanent contact deletion:

  * [Email Support](mailto:support@privy.com)
  * Provide your email address. It must be associated with a user in the Privy account. 
  * Use "Compliance - Data Removal Request" as the subject line. 
  * In the request's description, please provide:
    * The _Business Name_ and _Website URL_ are listed in your Privy account [here](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info).
    * The email address of the contact you'd like removed.
  * Select the **Submit** button. 

Following the submission, all of the contact's personally identifiable
information will be scrubbed within 30 days. While the contact's personal data
will be deleted, anonymized analytics data will remain. For example, the
contact's display views and revenue will continue to be reflected in your
[Convert](https://dashboard.privy.com/campaigns) dashboard. Similarly, if
youâ€™ve sent emails to the contact, the analytics will still be reflected in
the email performance reports (e.g., opens, clicks, etc.).

**Note:** When a contact is deleted, their display signups are also deleted.
This removal is retroactive and will reduce the signup counts in your account.

# Opt-out request

To perform a compliant contact opt-out:

  * [Email Support](mailto:support@privy.com)
  * Provide your email address. It must be associated with a user in the Privy account. 
  * Use "Compliance - Opt-Out Request" as the subject line. 
  * In the request's description, please provide:
    * The _Business Name_ and _Website URL_ are listed in your Privy account [here](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info).
    * The email address of the contact you'd like to opt out of. 
  * Select the **Submit** button. 

Following the submission, an opt-out identifier will be attached to the
contact's profile within 30 days. If you return to the contact profile, an
opt-out event will be present. The opt-out also removes the contact from all
marketing activities to ensure the broadest level of compliance.

# Access request

To perform a compliant data access request:

  * [Email Support](mailto:support@privy.com)
  * Provide your email address. It must be associated with a user in the Privy account. 
  * Use "Compliance - Data Access Request" as the subject line. 
  * In the request's description, please provide:
    * The _Business Name_ and _Website URL_ are listed in your Privy account [here](https://dashboard.privy.com/settings/business-info).
    * The email address of the contact you'd like information on. 
  * Select the **Submit** button. 

Following the submission, a request will be sent to Privy and processed within
30 days. Following this review, you will be emailed a collection of CSVs
containing the contact's information.

# Additional questions

For any additional questions, please email
[privacy@privy.com](mailto:privacy@privy.com).

