---
categories:
- compliance
collection: contacts
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/451-understand-marketing-consent
keywords: []
name: Understand Marketing Consent
slug: understand-marketing-consent
---
Opt-in is generally defined as a situation where customers provide their
personal information (e.g., email address or phone number) to an organization,
with the expectation that they'll receive marketing communications as a
result. The consent given can be implicit or explicit. It's important to
understand the differences between these two types of consent, as laws such as
[CAN-SPAM](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/can-spam-act-
compliance-guide-business), [CCPA](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa), and
[GDPR](https://gdpr.eu/) have changed the way customer data and communications
are handled.

**Note:** What consent looks like varies worldwide, so be sure to check the
regulations for the regions you're contacting. That said, these definitions of
implicit and explicit consent should help you navigate those regulations and
help you create successful campaigns.

# Implicit consent

Implicit consent is given when individuals provide their information for a
business purpose but have not explicitly stated that they want to receive
marketing communications. For example, a customer may fill out a "Contact Us"
form or complete a purchase through your store.

# Explicit consent

Explicit consent is given when you ask an individual for permission to send
them marketing materials, and they agree. The future recipient must manually
opt-in by taking action. The submission of a form that includes an email
address or phone number field is not sufficient for explicit consent. However,
the inclusion of an unchecked checkbox that the individual must click is
acceptable.

  

**Collecting explicit consent for email**

Privy supports an additional email opt-in checkbox that allows a customer to
provide explicit consent for email communications when paired with the email
field. For compliance reasons, the checkbox should be optional and unchecked
by default.

![](https://s3.amazonaws.com/helpscout.net/docs/assets/6606da67f4bb664508693b91/images/66a3da0a8919a15d1b1d20de/file-
Pw7e8HinwE.gif)

**Collecting explicit consent for text**

Privy supports an optional text opt-in checkbox that allows customers to
provide explicit consent for text communications when paired with the phone
field. Any display that includes an opt-in text field will default to display
the _Disclaimer text only_ , which will set expectations about receiving
future communications from your store. However, best practices for obtaining
explicit consent require the _Disclaimer text with a checkbox_ to be selected
under the _Format_ options.

**Note:** It's recommended that you continue to collect email addresses as
part of text sign-up forms as this information allows Privy to add the phone
number to existing contact profiles via deduplication. A phone number created
on its own results in the creation of a new profile.

# Consent and imports

A contact's consent is implied when importing contacts as subscribed [via a
spreadsheet](https://s3.amazonaws.com/privy.com/support/example_privy_import.csv).

# Consent's impact on reachability

Privy recommends obtaining explicit consent regardless of your local
regulations as it provides you (the sender) more protection concerning privacy
and compliance regulations. Additionally, it provides transparency for your
customers (the recipient) concerning their future relationship with your
marketing communications. That said, it is not required for all channels, so
it is important to understand how Privy approaches each sign-up scenario:

**Opt-in checkbox present?**| **Opt-in checkbox clicked?**| **Reachability**  
---|---|---  
Not present| Not applicable| Mailable/ Textable  
Present| Yes| Mailable/ Textable  
Present| No| Unset  
  
Ultimately, a sign-up event makes an individual mailable or textable unless
the contact is suppressed or explicit consent was asked for and not provided.
Contacts with the unset state have neither opted in nor opted out of receiving
emails and will not be mailable or textable until they've opted-in. Learn more
about Privy's reachability statuses
[here](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability).

**Note:** A lack of consent in a sign-up event is not treated the same as
revoking consent. A contact who is already mailable/textable won't become
unmailable/untextable if they fail to check future opt-in checkboxes.

