---
categories:
- create-send
collection: text
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/471-create-a-click-to-text-display
keywords: []
name: Create a Click-to-Text Display
slug: create-a-click-to-text-display
---
If you use a third-party SMS provider, you can use Privy to quickly collect
subscribers by including a single call-to-action (CTA) in your display. When a
mobile visitor is shown the display, they’ll simply have to click the CTA and
send the pre-populated message to your provider to opt-in. This approach
streamlines the entire signup process and improves signup rates by removing
the visitor's need to submit their contact information via a form.

**Note:** This process is only supported by select providers and is not
available for Privy Text. You must use a Classic Display is create this
display.

# Before you begin

To generate the opt-in text message via your CTA, you will need the
appropriate link or opt-in number and, in some cases, need to ensure that your
Privy account is linked with your SMS provider. Please review the requirements
for the supported providers below:

## Attentive

  * Please follow the steps outlined in [this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/211-create-an-attentive-ttj-campaign) instead. This resource outlines obtaining the required opt-in link along with the proper opt-in disclaimer (legal language). 

## Emotive and Listrak

  * Request your opt-in link from their teams directly. The links look something like this:

    
    
    http://www.{ProviderName}.com/sms/{Store_Name}.myshopify.com/Send%20this%20to%20receive%20Example%20Company's%20text%20messages%21
    

## Klaviyo

  * Your Klaviyo-linked CTA will use the following format: 

    
    
    sms:+1{Your-Destination-Number}?&body=Message%20Containing%20Your%20Keyword
    

  * Please ensure that you input your destination number (the SMS number that you have [configured in your account](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/360035285472)) and the appropriate opt-in keyword to subscribe the visitor to the desired list. By default, this keyword is JOIN, but you can [add your own subscribe keyword(s)](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/360050384091).

## Postscript

  * Ensure your Privy and Postscript accounts are linked and that the display includes the appropriate consent language by following [these steps](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/67-sync-contacts-to-postscript). 
  * Locate your short link under the "Grow List" tab in your Postscript account. 

# Create a mobile display

To create a one-click SMS opt-in display:

  * Navigate to **Convert** > **All Displays** and click the **New Display** button. 
  * On the _Plays_ dashboard, select the [Build your own](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/181-should-i-use-a-play-or-build-my-own-display) option, provide an internal name, and then click the **Create Display** button. 
  * In the  _Create_ step of the display builder, select the **Form fields** card, uncheck the **Enable Form** option, and then click **Save**. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-19/5485a5fa-
eebd-41fb-89f6-2e08238c9b23/Create_a_click_to_text_display_1.gif)

  * While still in the _Create_ step, select the **Add a Display** option. 
  * Select a form-free template to showcase your opt-in CTA - a **flyout** or a **popup** is recommended - and then click the **Choose selected** option in the upper right. 
  * Customize the display with an opt-in message, button, and disclaimer. Select the **Redirect page to...** option for the button action and input the opt-in link from your provider. Meanwhile, the disclaimer should clearly outline that sending the subsequent text will result in an SMS opt-in like the example shown below:

By texting, you agree to receive marketing text messages from {Insert Company
Name}. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Message and data rates may
apply. View Terms {Link to terms} & Privacy {Link to Privacy Policy}. Reply
"STOP" to cancel at any time."

That said, please consult with your third-party provider to ensure your
disclaimer meets its compliance requirements and your business needs. Some
providers, including Attentive and Postscripts, provide a premade disclaimer
with specific legal language.

  * Consider adding an optional additional button that allows the visitor to dismiss the offer. The button would use the**Close the...** option. 
  * Disable the **Desktop tab** if it is active and configure or disable the **Mobile tab**. 
  * Select the **Save** option at the upper right. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-19/a3ac4818-3683-45b4-891c-dfc6910551c1/Customize_the_display.gif)

  * Next, move to the  _Target_ step and configure the **When To Show** setting. **Save**. 
  * Select the **Who To Show It To** setting and click **Add targeting condition**.
  * Add the rule listed below along with any other desired rules. **Save**. 
    * **Device category is Mobile** \- This rule ensures the visitor is on their mobile device, which allows the link to generate and send the opt-in text message. 
  * Select the **How Long to Show It** setting if you'd like the display to expire. **Save**. 
  * In the upper right, click the **Publish** button and confirm in the prompt. 

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-19/153a4737-8cc2-4760-a289-fd9bd9fca57c/Targeting_options.gif)

The one-click SMS opt-in display is now live and will appear to your
qualifying customers.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-19/c8daaa9e-40a0-4088-be7a-bde70d32bbd7/Click-
to-text_example_in_action.gif)

# Troubleshooting options

### The provider link does not work

If the link used in the redirect field of the default Privy button doesn't
work and you've confirmed that it's formatted correctly, you can attempt to
use a custom-coded button instead. To create a custom-coded button:

  * Edit the display. 
  * Add an **HTML** element to the display. 
  * Paste the following code into the HTML field, making sure to incorporate your sending number and keyword. 

    
    
    <input 
    type="button" 
    onClick="window.location='sms:+1[YOUR SENDING NUMBER]&amp;body=Text [YOUR KEYWORD]%20to%20subscribe%20to%20SMS%20Updates!%20'"   value="Join Now!"   
    style="border-radius: 0px;  border: 0;  width: 220px;  height: 60px;  font-family: Lato;  Font-size:18px;  background-color: #10A0D0;  color: #fff;   cursor: pointer;" />
    

Style the button to match your branding within the HTML element and Save.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-19/3f13ce9e-eda6-4298-bd84-ae48b713a1f7/Create_a_custom_HTML_button.gif)

