---
categories:
- uncategorized
collection: text
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/149-privy-email-and-sms-compliance
keywords:
- Compliance
- Email
- SMS
- policies
- consent
- CAN-SPAM
- CCPA
- GDPR
- permissions
- CANSPAM
- spam
- acceptable use policy
- AUP
- TOS
- permission
- marketing
- mailable
- unset
- suppressed
- unsubscribe
- unsubscribed
- purchased list
- textable
- non textable
- non-textable
- not textable
- imports
- bots
- fake
- addresses
- list hygiene
- hygiene
- best practices
- spam
name: Privy SMS Compliance
slug: privy-email-and-sms-compliance
---
Privy strives to provide quality services that empower our merchants to comply
with legal standards and create highly engaging messaging. Below, the
Compliance Team has outlined a few tips and tricks that further that mission.
These guidelines will help you avoid high spam complaints and high unsubscribe
rates and remain compliant with the email marketing industry's best practices.

# Prohibited Materials

Certain materials and content are prohibited from being sent via email. If you
are using Privy Email, please ensure you follow our [Acceptable Use
Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy), as this is agreed upon
in our [Terms and Conditions](https://www.privy.com/terms-and-conditions) when
you first sign up for an account with Privy.

# Subscriber Consent

In terms of email marketing, having proper consent means that your mailing
lists only contain individuals who provided their personal information (e.g.,
email address or phone number), with the expectation that they'll receive
marketing communications as a result.

Obtaining consent is not only a recommendation but it is also required when
you sign up for a Privy account and is listed in our Terms and Conditions.

## Why is proper consent important?

Not having proper permissions can result in higher spam complaints and less
engaged subscribers. Higher spam reports can result in blacklisting and
filtering, which leads to poor delivery rates. This situation will negatively
impact both your business' reputation and Privy's email deliverability, which
affects all of our customers.

To send emails to your contacts successfully using Privy Email, you must
ensure that they have given consent to receive email marketing communication
from your business.

## What type of consent is expected?

The permissions given can be implicit or explicit. It's important to
understand the differences between these two types of consent, as laws such as
[CAN-SPAM](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/resources/can-spam-act-
compliance-guide-business), [CCPA](https://oag.ca.gov/privacy/ccpa), and
[GDPR](https://gdpr.eu/) have changed the way customer data and communication
are handled. The graphic below outlines the basic differences between the two,
while[ this guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/206-understand-
marketing-consent) provides a deeper dive into marketing consent.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-18/a496eb58-1631-4265-9000-faad0f2ac0d0/Consent_graphic.png)

# SMS Permissions

If your business collects telephone numbers to be used in SMS marketing, you
must include specific opt-in language to set proper expectations regarding
what the recipients are opting in to receive. Below is an overview of the
current SMS permissions, while [this
guide](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability)
dives deeper into eligibility and reachability.

  * **Textable** : The contact is eligible to receive texts. A contact becomes textable by submitting a form with the text opt-in checkbox checked and then answering "YES" to the double opt-in message sent to their number. This action provides [explicit consent](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/139-understand-deliverability). 
  * **Not Textable** : The contact is not eligible to receive texts. 

# Subscriber Management

For imports to be approved, subscribers must be identified with the proper
mailing permissions. See the List Hygiene section below for advice on list-
cleanup.

## List Hygiene

List hygiene entails removing inactive (cold) email subscribers from your
email campaigns and keeping your remaining list engaged (warm) with healthy
email-sending habits.

**Why should you care?** This practice saves you money as you'll only be
paying for and engaging with your active recipients. To keep your sending
lists as clean and healthy as possible:

  * Remove duplicate entries
  * Delete fake email addresses or bots
  * Delete email addresses that have bounced or marked your emails as spam
  * Correct typos or other errors in email addresses as soon as possible
  * Avoid sending emails to role-based addresses (e.g., admin@, support@, sales@, office@, marketing@). These addresses typically forward to groups of individuals, invalidating the unsubscribe function and violating the CAN-SPAM legislation. 
  * Confirming an address's status regularly ensures that it is still active and relevant. You can reconfirm a contact's permission by having the contact sign up again. A confirmation at least once every two years is recommended.

## Which lists will be rejected?

  * Lists that do not contain proper mailing permissions or that contain mixed permissions.
  * Lists that have been purchased, shared, rented, or appended to from a third party.
  * Lists containing mostly role, group, or transactional addresses (e.g., sales@company.com).
  * Lists containing mostly spam or bot addresses.
  * Lists containing addresses from websites that have been scraped without consent. 
  * Any distribution or member-accessible lists, such as attendee lists, public directories, member associations, or voter directories where direct permission to email has not been provided
  * Any list of social media contacts or connections where the contact has not explicitly requested your communications.

## Can I upload unsubscribed contacts?

Yes, and it's highly encouraged. Uploading unsubscribed contacts allows you to
keep track of which contacts have unsubscribed and helps you make sure you
don't accidentally send emails to those contacts. To import a list of
unsubscribed individuals, please separate them from your subscribed contacts
and import them in a separate CSV file. You can then select Unsubscribed as
their subscription status during the _Status_ step of the import process.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-18/ac1c3d3b-0f21-4daf-a8c5-60abb5e4c4e3/Unsubscribed_Option.png)

## Exporting Contacts

Knowing how to [export](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/159-how-to-
export-your-contacts) a list of contacts also helps you maintain a clean
database. Exports can be especially useful when maintaining contact
permissions across multiple platforms or services.

# Compliance Best Practices

  * **Set content expectations**. Have you conveyed what your subscribers should expect when signing up for your communications? A recipient is far more likely to mark an email as spam if it is not quickly recognizable and does not align with what they expected. 
  * **Set a mailing cadence**. Contacts who have not heard from you in a while may not remember signing up for your content or mailing lists. It's important to stay relevant while not over-communicating. Sending one or two bulk emails (e.g., Newsletters) a week is ideal for most Privy merchants. 
  * **Use contact segments**. You can target your audience with various [segments](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/159-how-to-export-your-contacts) and provide tailored emails based on the recipient's interests.
  * **Avoid spammy habits**. While being marked as spam by a few recipients is almost a guarantee, there are [steps you can take](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/144-my-contact-didnt-get-my-email) to ensure that your email avoids as many spam reports as possible. 

