---
categories:
- compliance
collection: text
helpscout_url: https://help.privy.com/article/498-toll-free-message-verification-for-privy-text
keywords: []
name: Toll-Free Message Verification for Privy Text
slug: toll-free-message-verification-for-privy-text
---
Toll-Free Message Verification refers to a process that allows businesses to
send application-to-person (A2P) type messaging via toll-free phone numbers.

**Note:** If you’re on a plan with SMS marketing and are noticing that Privy
Text features are disabled in your account, it’s likely that your toll-free
message verification is still under review.

**Note:**[Privy Text](https://www.privy.com) messages can only be sent to
numbers registered in the United States and Canada (+1 country code) at this
time. Your business/industry must also not conflict with any of the content
restrictions outlined in Privy's [Acceptable Use
Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy) to send messages.

The toll-free messaging verification process was put in place as a result of a
collaboration between The Campaign Registry (TCR), a consortium of mobile
network operators, including Verizon, T-Mobile, and AT&T. TCR has introduced
industry standards that now require toll-free numbers to be registered and
vetted before they can be used for SMS marketing.

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-14/8cd74380-cfbe-406f-b3b1-5b087a5a20a5/Texts_from_Privy.gif)

# Benefits of Toll-Free Message Verification

Toll-Free Messaging provides benefits for brands and consumers:

## Build consumer trust

Toll-free messaging verification requirements are in place to eliminate bad
actors and spam from the SMS marketing ecosystem and ensure the trust of
consumers. By enforcing stricter verification processes, consumers can trust
that their SMS inboxes are being protected from spam and fraud schemes.

## Reduce the chance of being filtered by carriers

Toll-free numbers are recognized as belonging to a business, which gives
consumers confidence that they’re engaging with a business or brand. This
reduces the chances of consumers unsubscribing or reporting your message as
spam, which makes your messages less likely to be filtered by carriers.

## Ensure better deliverability rates

Toll-free numbers are ideal for high-volume and promotional messages like sale
reminders, back-in-stock alerts, limited-time offers, and more. This means
that you can send more text messages without worrying about delayed delivery
or processing times.

Complying with these verification standards offers more stability, better
delivery rates, and improved security for consumers.

# Toll-Free Messaging Verification Process Overview

## What is a toll-free number?

Toll-free numbers are those that start with 800, 888, 877, 866, 855, 844, or
833 numbers like +1 (800) 968-00xx. Toll-free numbers are great for businesses
new to SMS marketing as they give your brand a professional phone number to
send text messages. As the SMS marketing industry has evolved, Toll-Free
Messaging has become the industry standard due to its ability to support high-
volume messaging often associated with SMS marketing. Toll-free messaging is a
system that outlines how applications like Privy send text messages to your
customers on your behalf. Privy Text uses toll-free numbers so users can send
marketing text messages.

# Verified vs. unverified toll-free numbers

## Verified

**A business can have 1 verified toll-free number associated with their
brand.**

To be verified, a toll-free number must go through an application process to
be approved by wireless carriers. Once approved, the toll-free number will be
associated with that specific business and the number will be recognized as
‘verified’ by wireless carriers.

We don’t recommend collecting phone numbers or sending text messages until
your toll-free number has been verified. You can design your displays and
draft your SMS campaigns and automations, but do not publish or activate these
until your number is verified.

## Unverified

Unverified toll-free numbers are those that are:

  * Pending verification, meaning that the number is currently undergoing the verification process
  * Not verified, meaning that the number was rejected for verification 

**Note:** Not all organizations qualify for toll-free message verification.
Privy Text does not support SMS marketing for industries restricted by
wireless carriers as certain materials and content are prohibited from being
sent via SMS. If you are using Privy Text, please ensure you follow our
[Acceptable Use Policy](https://www.privy.com/acceptable-use-policy), as this
is agreed upon in our [Terms and Conditions](https://www.privy.com/terms-and-
conditions) when you first sign up for an account with Privy.

Your website must be live for your toll-free number to be verified.**If your
toll-free verification request is rejected, a member of the Privy team will
contact you to resubmit your request to our carrier partner.**

If your number has been rejected for verification, you will not be able to
send any messages or collect phone numbers that are textable in Privy.

# How do I submit my application for verification?

The first time you attempt to access a feature of the Privy Text product, such
as abandoned cart texts or broadcast texts, a registration modal will appear.
To submit your registration, please ensure any pre-populated information is
accurate and provide any missing information. Once your registration is
submitted, the toll-free message verification process will begin.

The following information is required, you will not receive a toll-free number
unless you provide it:

  * The business owner’s first and last name
  * Business’s billing address (street, city, state, zip code, country)
  * Business phone number

![](https://hf-files-
oregon.s3.amazonaws.com/hdpprivy_kb_attachments/2023/12-14/35cf3b31-7370-4082-8ec7-385e7b772ecc/2023-11-08_07-29-28.png)

# What happens after I submit my registration?

Once your registration is submitted, your toll-free number for SMS marketing
is put in a ‘pending’ state while your registration details are verified. The
toll-free message verification process typically takes approximately 2-3
weeks, though it may take longer if the initial verification request is
rejected due to insufficient business information.

Please note that your website must be live throughout the entire verification
process in order to be approved. A key part of verification is checking that
the business is active and not a scam. If you haven't already, make sure to
set your website live.

While you are in a Pending state, your toll-free number is considered
‘Unverified’ and your access to Privy’s SMS marketing features are limited.
**Any phone numbers you collect with Privy displays while your verification is
pending will not be considered testable.**

Additionally, you won’t be able to take the following actions in your Privy
account until fully verified:

  * Send or schedule SMS campaigns
  * Activate SMS automations like After Signup Texts and Abandoned Cart Texts

You may draft SMS campaigns and automations to send and activate once your
toll-free number is verified.

When your verification status is set to ‘**Verified** ,’ you will be able to
access the features outlined above to begin collecting textable phone numbers
and sending text messages.

# What can I do while my verification status is pending?

While you await verification for your Toll-Free number, Privy Text features
will be limited in your account. That said, we recommend getting your account
ready so you can hit the ground running once you’re verified:

  * [Design displays to collect phone numbers](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/199-create-a-phone-capture-display)
  * [Draft your After Signup Text](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/242-set-up-an-after-signup-text)
  * [Draft your Abandoned Cart Text Message](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/68-send-abandoned-cart-texts)
  * [Draft your first SMS campaign](https://privy.helpscoutdocs.com/article/179-send-a-broadcast-text)

As noted above, you won’t be able to collect textable phone numbers until your
Toll-Free number is verified. Any SMS automations and campaigns you draft
while unverified can be activated or sent once you’re verified.

# What should I do once my Verification is approved?

It’s best to start sending text messages with your toll-free number soon after
being approved. Carriers expect SMS marketing programs to be active and
consistently messaging subscribers. If there is a long pause of multiple weeks
between your toll-free number being verified and sending your first message,
carriers may revert your status back to unverified and filter your message.

# What can I do if my verification request is rejected?

There are a few common reasons why your verification request may be rejected:

### Your business is in a restricted industry

Wireless carriers have additional restrictions for certain types of brand and
part of the verification process includes checking your site for any
prohibited content (often referred to as SHAFT). SHAFT refers to sex, alcohol,
firearms, and tobacco, including CBD. Carriers block or filter text messages
that contain SHAFT content to protect consumers, especially underage
consumers, from being exposed to SHAFT products and marketing. At this time,
Privy is unable to support SMS marketing for brands who sell items that fall
within any SHAFT category.

### Incomplete or unpublished product catalog

If your product catalog is not published, your Toll-Free verification request
may be denied. Similarly, online stores that are still being built may have
their verification request rejected by carriers if the website or product
catalog appears incomplete.

### Website not live or password protected

Your Toll-Free verification request may be denied if your business’ website is
not yet live or is password protected because this prevents your site from
being reviewed by audit teams. You can expect your verification request to
remain rejected until your site is live and can be fully audited.

If your toll-free verification request is rejected, a member of the Privy team
will contact you to resubmit your request to our carrier partner.

# Have additional questions?

Please feel free to reach out to our team at [text-
compliance@privy.com](mailto:text-compliance@privy.com) with additional
questions.

